Wartime Women Find Much  Work to Do. Occupations Ordinarily Masculine  Now Recruited With Highly Efficient Femininity.  WOMEN may soon be employed as conductors on Portland streetcars. Essential war work is steadily depleting manpower. Cars of the Portland Railway, Light & Power lines are standing idle at the barns during rush hours of daily travel because there are not enough men to operate them. The matter has been discussed at meetings of the union of street railway employe. While the employment of women has not been regarded with favor by some of the men already in service, it may become a necessity for the period of the war. Women are doing valiant service in the shipyards and in various industrial lines in Portland. They have proved their ability to make good. There are approximately 12,000,000 pay envelopes handed to American women and girls every week, or month, and out of this rapidly growing total considerably more than 1,500,000 go to women engaged exclusively in war industries or essential employment as it is now designated. The war motto, "The men must fight and women must work," has become the most vivid and practical evolution of the titanic struggle of the nations of which history has any record. In the direct war industries alone the following figures have been compiled from Government and other sources, as indicating the growth of the mighty army of women workers: 275,0O0 women in textile mills; 205,000 women in canneries; 212,000 women as sewing machine operators; 130,000 women in knitting and hosiery mills; 100,000 women mechanicians: 100,000 women in munition plants; 400,000 women making military equipment; 100,OOO women shoe workers. The Government at Washington employs over 50,000 women in clerical work in various war activities. There are more than 2,000,000 women farmers. Women drive motor tractors, they hoe, pitch hay, groom horses, milk cows, feed and care for the stock, and more than 250,000 of them own and operate their own farms. Approximately 500,000 women are working in munitions and equipment plants, making guns, gas masks, tent poles, cots, axes, spades, scientific instruments and parts of airplanes and a multiplicity of other materials needed in the direct and immediate prosecution of the war. There are women chauffeurs, taxicab drivers and women police. Eight Portland women wear police badges. New York City has a police reserve of over 6000 women today. Women are building automobiles and motor trucks; they are running elevators; they are cigar salesmen, draughtsmen, electricians and street car conductors. One of the marvels of the war condition has been the easy adaptability of the fair sex to the work of men in almost every conceivable line of industrial activity except where there is the need of mere physical strength. The British War Office in a recent report answered succinctly the question, "Can a woman do a man's work?" by showing that in nearly 1800 jobs at which women are employed in Great Britain a woman is "just as good as a man, and for some of them better." Tanks Work of Women. British shipyards have launched ships built almost entirely by women labor. The great host of tanks that are doing their valiant part in the crushing of the Huns is the product of female labor almost exclusively. Government and labor commission reports show that women are engaged in the following lines, and doing their work efficiently: Bakeries, sugar factories, starch and glucose factories, lead pencil factories, gas works and light work in storage houses. They operate tool machines, band saws, lathes and planes and at nail and screw-driving in woodworking establishments. They are working in railroad offices, yards, car shops, machine shops and in various operating capacities. They are cleaning, painting and even making cars. They are engaged in quarrying and in building occupations, in foundries, in constructional engineering as helpers and operators. Tasks Taken In Shipyards.  In shipbuilding they are doing electrical wiring, drilling and weaving oakum; they are engaged in power plants; they are in the chemical industries, printing trades, brush making, tailoring, leather trades, and all lines of public service. In one of the great Navy-yards over 5000 women and girls are employed. One rifle and munition plant has nearly 2000 women on its regular payroll. The Pennsylvania Railroad has approximately 5000 women employes, and scores of other steam roads have hundreds at work in various capacities. In electric railway service, in all lines of work, the number is wall over 10,000, and growing by leaps and bounds. From the standpoint of working conditions, so far as observation and investigation goes, there has been no discrimination against women workers as to either hours or wages. Traction Linen Feel Draft. The tremendous inroads the drafts and competing war industries have made on the operating staffs of the street railway companies has presented the most trying problem this industry has ever faced in order to keep up its service to traffic requirements. At the same time it brings the women into direct contact with the public more than in any other industry where the gates have been thrown open to the fair sex. The movement to supplant men conductors with women on the cars will gain even greater headway than at present when the full effect of the recent 18-45 draft is reached. 