GERMANY VERY SHORT OF MALE LABOR THIS YEARWomen Take Places in All Branches of Industrial Activity RAILROADS USING MANY Competition Between Plants Boosts Wages of Labor Vigorously NEW YORK, Feb. 28. Germany has been extremely short of male labor this winter, according to German newspapers. The latest official labor statistics published show that there were only fifty-six applicants for every one hundred vacancies for male workmen. The market for female laborers showed for the first time since the early days of the war an over-supply, 108 applicants being registered for every hundred positions. The Prussian state railroads alone employ over one hundred thousand women in various capacities from section hand to railroad conductor.Before the war there were barely ten thousand women on the payrolls of the state railways, employed largely as scrubwomen although they were also found in the telegraph department, as clerks in various bureaus and sometimes as crossing tenders. Minister Von Breitenbach, head of the Prussian ministry of ways and communications said that if the war continued the number of women employed would increase even further in order to release more men for the colors. He stated in the Leipsic Illustrated Zeitung that the women laborers had in general proved fairly satisfactory, attributing this in part to the fact that the use of trousers had been made compulsory and hinted that skirted employes in the traffic department and on the road-bed would have been far less efficient. He said that in duties of a predominantly mental character, women were practically as efficient as men.When mental ability must be combined with strength and physical skill, as in the case in most branches of the operative departments, the women, he declared, could not keep pace with the men, while, in positions requiring chiefly qualities of muscle and endurance, such as those of track repairers, for example, the women reached only 50 to 75 percent of the efficiency of the male laborers. For this reason Minister Breitenbach apparently looked upon the employment of women in such large numbers upon the railroads only as a temporary expedient, to be gradually abandoned after the conclusion of the war.