Nonunion Smoker Scored. The finding of a sack of non-union- made tobacco on the floor when the convention met today started a brisk discussion on the union label question. Charles Leyle, of the Cigarmakers' Union of Seattle, flourished a sack of tobacco and invited the offending union man to come forth and disclose his   identity. "The man who would buy and bring  into this convention a package of tobacco made under conditions unfair to organized labor outrages the principles of unionism." said Mr. Leyle. "Let the man who owns this tobacco come here and I'll give it to him. This is no laughing matter. The man who would do a thing of this sort violates the oath he has taken." Although there was a lot of looking about to see who had a guilty look, the owner of the tobacco was content to leave it in the hands of Mr. Leyle without disclosing his identity. The report of Secretary-Treasurer Charles Perry Taylor indicates that the Federation has finished a prosperous year. His financial statement showed disbursements In 1909 of $3860.82; balance on hand, $973.18. Sixty-two new unions have affiliated with the federation during the last year and but one union has withdrawn. There are now affiliated with the Federation 214 organizations, including central labor bodies and women's labor leagues. ANNA MORGAN AIDS LABOR "PIERPONT'S" DAUGHTER TO OR- GANIZE 'FRISCO WOMEN Laboring Women of San Francisco to be United In Organization. San Francisco,. April 26 Anna Morgan, daughter of financier J. P. Morgan is today planning to meet with  labor ladies here for the purpose of Organizing the working women of  San Francisco into a league which  will have for its object the betterment of the members.  A meeting will be tomorrow night when the organization will be perfected. WHY WOMEN'S LABOR IS CHEAP. If we ask why women's labor should be cheap, the answer seems to be partly because her strength is generally less than a man's, but also, and much more, because she does not train sufficiently to become a skilled worker and because she does not organize strongly enough to ask for better pay. The Industrial revolution 150 years ago found women working perhaps quite as hard or harder than they work now. But they were working they spun, wove, etc. usually as members of a family. The family was the industrial unit. The growth of capital and the introduction of machinery drew women out of their homes to work in association in the factory. Association gave men the opportunity of combining together and taught them that union might be strength. But for various reasons women have been much longer in learning that lesson, and, though trade unionism has recently made progress among women, the proportion of women workers who belong to unions is as yet inconsiderable. What is the cause of the comparative lack of skill and proficiency of women in industrial work and of their comparative apathy in organizing to improve their position? Men mostly attain their fullest skill and power in those years when women mostly withdraw from work. The most numerous class of women, the most typical woman in this country, is the girl who at fourteen or fifteen, perhaps earlier, goes out as a servant or works in a factory, mill or workshop for seven or eight years and looks forward to marriage as the natural termination of her industrial career. Even in Lancashire, where the employment of married women is more general than elsewhere, the census shows that the percentage of women occupied is so strongly influenced by marriage that it drops from 76 percent at the age group 15-20 to only 38 per cent at the age of 25-35. The proportion of married or widowed women occupied in Lancashire from twenty-five to thirty-five years old is only 18 per cent. It is frequently observed by those who have made a study of women's trades that the prospect of marriage makes girls slack about training and indifferent about reorganization. Here we come upon the center anomaly of the woman's position in the industry. The normal woman looks forward to marriage, and gives, or hopes to give, her best years to the family. Hence her lack of stability as an industrial worker and her weak position as a bargainer in the labor market London Times. Women's Labor From the London Times. If we ask why women's labor should be cheap, the answer seems to be partly because her strength is generally less than a man's, but also, and much more, because she does not train sufficiently to become a skilled worker and because she does hot organize strongly enough to ask for better pay.  The industrial revolution 150 years ago found women working perhaps quite as hard as or harder than they work now. But they were working they spun, wove, etc. usually as members of a family. The family was the industrial unit. The growth of capital and the introduction of machinery drew women out of their homes to work in association in the factory. Association gave men the opportunity of combining together, and taught them that union might be strength. But for various reasons women have been much longer in learning that lesson, and, though trade unionism has recently made progress among women, the proportion of women workers who belong to unions is as yet inconsiderable. What is the cause of the comparative lack of skill and proficiency of women in industrial work and of their comparative apathy in organizing to improve their position? Men mostly attain their fullest skill and power in those years when women mostly with draw from work. The most numerous class of women, the most typical woman in this country, is the girl who at 14 or 15, perhaps earlier, goes out as a servant or works in a factory, mill or workshop for seven or eight years and looks forward to marriage as the natural termination of her industrial career. Even in Lancashire where the employment of married women is more general than elsewhere, the census shows that the percentage of women occupied is so strongly influenced by marriage that it drops from 76 percent, at the age group 15-20 to only 38 percent at the age of 25-85. The proportion of married or widowed women occupied in Lancashire from 25 to 35 years old is only 18 percent. It is frequently observed by those who have made a study of women's trades that the prospect of marriage makes the girl slack about training and indifferent about organization. Here we come upon the central anomaly of the woman's position in Industry. The normal woman looks forward to marriage, and gives, or hopes to give, her best years to the family. Hence her lack of stability as an industrial worker and her weak position as a bargainer in the labor market. WOMAN'S LABOR IN DEMAND British Exchanges Meet Co-operation of Large Employers. LONDON, Aug. 28. - (Special.) - With nearly half a year's working experience behind, and the forming of plans for Autumn and Winter developments In the course of working, the moment is opportune for reviewing the position of the Women's Labor Exchanges established by the Board of Trade to deal with some of the problems as to employment in England. Less, perhaps, has been heard of this side of the work than that of the men, but it has shown progress and illustrated social forces l.i Its own particular way, and at this juncture the attitude of large manufacturers and employers of female labor is especially encouraging. The Winter demands in the clothing trade begin to call for augmented staffs and one great West End house alone his intimated to the central offices of the women's branch at Caxton House that it will be prepared to engage through it 200 skilled talloresses, machinists, and similar workers. Farmers Take Interest. At a big meeting at Dunfanaghy Courthouse, attended by farmers for miles around. Hugh Law, the Nationalist M. P. for north Donegal, made a powerful speech for woman suffrage and offered a resolution supporting it to those of his constituents who were present, which was passed unanimously. Peter Kerr-Smiley, of County Antrim. Is another Ulster Nationalist who is backing the cause of the suffragettes. All told, a majority of the Nationalist party have pledged themselves as friends to votes for women." The suffrage societies of Belfast have been doing their level best during the past few weeks to force a public investigation of the conditions of sweated female labor in the linen trade recently laid bare in the annual report of Health Inspector Bailie. The incredibly underpaid women of Belfast, many of whom earn less than 6 cents a day for making "hand-made" shirts, constitute an obvious example, they urge, of the callousness of a male electorate in dealing with the exploitation of women labor. Miss Wary Galway, the well-known labor leader, has been especially prominent in the agitation, and is pressing on the women of Belfast the great need for united action in this and the other social exposures that so particularly concern women. From here it is only a short step, for Miss Galway Mrs. D. W. Elliott, and the other women leaders to point to the vote as the only remedy that can permanently insure decent conditions of working and livelihood for the working woman. 12,587 WOMEN LABOR WASHINGTON COMMISSIONER'S REPORT INTERESTING. Inspection of 723 Establishments Made During Year Cle Elum's Cost of Living Highest. OLYMPIA, Wash., Jan. 7. (Special)Embodied in the report of State Labor Commissioner Charles F. Hubbard, are a series of highly interesting tables in regard to labor conditions in Washington. For the first time a report is made on female help and it is shown that since the last Legislature authorized the appointment of a female deputy, 723 establishments have been inspected in which 12,587 women were employed. These women work an average of nine hours a day, for which they receive an average of $1.57 per day. The object of this law was principally to investigate the sanitary conditions and it was found that in 299 of the places visited the sanitary arrangements were good, in 218 they were branded as poor and in 186 as fair. These figures were compiled at the time of the original inspection and no notice is taken of the improvements that were made as the result of the law. In one portion of the report Commissioner Hubbard secured statements from 50 men who are wage-earners and who live in all parts of the state. Of the 50, 33 were married men and 17 single. The 33 married wage-earners are supporting 135 persons, while the 17 single men are supporting only eight. Each married man is supporting an average of four persons, while the single men are supporting only one between every two. The average age of these 50 is 31.5 years and they work an average of eight and a quarter hours a day and an average of 24.3 days per month. They do not average a full year's work, but come close to it, as the report shows they work 11.2 months out of every 12. A striking feature of the report is that they pay an average rent of $15.58, while the average board per week is $6.38, and these men earn an average of $3.52 per day. According to the report Cle Elum is the most expensive town in the state to live in, the board running to $10 per week, while in Seattle men were boarding as low as $3 per week. Aberdeen and Everett tie for second place in the high cost of living, with an average of $8 per week, and in Tacoma board Is shown to be $7 per week, and in Bellingham $5.50 per week. Since January 1, 1909, 184 new industries have been established in Washington which represent a total capital investment of $3,382,900. These new plants give employment to 1568 skilled workers, 1526 unskilled workers and 164 females. The men work an average of 24 days a month and the women 26, and both work an average of 10 months a year. The wage of the skilled workers averages $3.67 per day, the unskilled $2.39, and the female help $1.39 per day. Of the power driven plants 145 use steam, 31 electric and one a combination of steam and electric. CALIFORNIA WOMEN'S LABOR LAWS  WILL BE CONTESTED BY HOTELMAN Limit to 48 Hours a Week Compels Adoption of European Plan in Some  Instances, but Consumer Will Pay in End-Los Angeles Reforms Treatment of Insane LOS ANGELES, June 3. (Special.) Nothing that the recent Legislature did has caused as much trouble as the eight-hour law for women. It has completely upset all walks of commercial, business and professional life and none of them has felt it as much as hotelkeepers. This is natural when one considers the requirements of the hotel. And so the first gun in the grand attack on the eight-hour law was fired when Frank Miller, of Riverside, the other day was arrested and pleaded not guilty to a charge of working the head waitress of the Glenwood Inn longer than the law allows.  Backing Miller are the members of the Southern California Hotel Men's Association and the San Francisco Hotel Men's Association, and the case will be pressed as a teat of the law. The hotel men, as a whole, have been chary of discussing the action, as they had planned to let it be conducted without the associations appearing in it to any extent. "I have several women working for me who have been In my employ for 15 years," said Miller. "It as Impossible for me to conduct my hotel under the eight-hour law and keep these women with me. As a result, I must either discharge them after their years of faithful service or face prosecution. I do not went to discharge them, they want to remain and I have determined to let the Supreme Court of the state say what shall be done. WOMAN LABOR LAW HITS Laundries and Telephone Companies Affected by Washington Statute. VANCOUVER. Wash., July 16. (Special.) The eight-hour law for women, which went into effect June 8, 1911, will have a tendency, so employers of women labor contend, to cause women to be crowded out and their places filled by men, in some cases, by Japanese.  Laundries, which are large employers of women labor, have to compete with Portland, where there is not an eight-hour law for women. The laundries are unable to raise their prices, but the cost of production is necessarily more. In some of the hotels girls have been replaced with Japanese, and the dining room closed three hours during the afternoon, when trade is light. The telephone company has been compelled to add a number of girls. RELIGION SOLVES PROBLEM Fairbanks Tells How Capital and  Labor May "Get Together" Toronto. Ont., Oct. 9. The Ecumenical Methodist Conference today continued its work by considering under  numerous subdivisions the general topic "The Study of Scriptures." Charles W. Fairbanks, formerly VicePresident of the United States, said he felt individual service is most effective  when co-operative with that of the  church. He said: "If there is to be a  cessation of conflict between labor and capital, it will have to come through  the Christian religion and its teachings. Religion has taught the problems of child labor." he continued, "better surroundings and women labor. But its  ideals are a long way from being realized. Religion desmans that for the  same service a woman should receive  the same wages as a man receives. A  people cannot rise higher than its  womanhood rises, and it is the  churches' privilege to life woman into  her true dignity." CHILDREN FIND CHAMPION Woman's Temperance Union Takes Up Fight on Child Labor. MILWAUKEE. Oct. 28 The perfection of an International Temperance Union and the working out of a code of laws prohibiting child and women labor in excess and fostering educational work for both sexes are some of the things to be considered at the convention of the National Women's Christian Temperance Union, which opened a six-day session In Milwaukee, today. The annual address of the president, Lillian M. Stevens, was part of the opening programme. Rival Canvasses Begin. Seemingly recognizing that their only hope of offsetting the "women labor vote" lies In the registration of women in the residential districts mothers, housewives, sisters and those who do not work for weekly wages the Good Government forces have sworn in hundreds of deputies, who will at once begin a canvass of the women voters. Registration offices have been opened in parks, newspaper offices, women's clubs, large department stores and almost every place visited by women. One thousand members of the Women's Protective League have agreed to see 10 voters personally and urge them to vote for Alexander. To offset these efforts of their opponents, the baker, the grocer, the butcher all small tradesmen are delivering with each order a Socialist platform or Socialist literature, and many linger at kitchen doors to talk politics with the cook. Women Socialists are making a canvass in opposition to the Good Government house-to-house workers. Better Laws for Women. "From a Biblical standpoint woman's suffrage is right. The Bible says that that woman shall stay home and bear children and there Is no doubt about that being proper. But man has made laws which stand In the way of this, or probably It would be better to say have failed to make laws to uphold this holy command. Woman Is forced Into the world to shift for herself. Look at the Instance back East where women were found working In smeltIng plants doing labor which caused their death within a few years and children were so worked that their bodies and lives were dwarfed. The conditions under the regime of man have worked against woman until now she Is Just as much a part of the world outside the home as the man. Why should she not have a voice in the law? The man-made laws have not made It possible for her to live up to her proper place In life. "The woman Is opposed to any condition of society which drives women out Into the world to do the labor of men and she Is opposed to any condition which permits children to go Into sweatshops and wreck their lives to satisfy the selfishness of the big business Interests. And why should they not take that stand? It Is their duty to raise the children and their duty to throw around them the protection which Is required to give them a place in society. "The sweatshop tactics are the result not of the survival of the fittest war which has characterized all time, but Is the result of the worst form of tyrannical selfishness that can be Imagined. Who can think of a worse crime than taking women into factories where they are worked to death and children are worked until they are no longer human beings but mere slaving animals? And all because they will work for less wages than men." And so we find W. M. Davis, former anti-woman suffrage warhorse In the new role of one of the most radical of women's rights advocates. He admits It Is going to be a lively fight, but says he expects to win with his backing; pf strong people. The anti-suffragist declares the problem Is two-fold In its scope. The question today is how to get votes for women. When this is solved there will pop up the all-Important question for mere man to solve, how to get votes "from" women. The opposition says most women are for anything that looks like reform whether it is reasonable or not and regardless of how it affects business Interests. When an Important proposition involving vast Interests gets into the hands of the women, they say, there Is considerably more trouble getting votes from women than at present getting; votes for women.The Question of Bad Company. Colonel Roosevelt quotes with approval a remark of Dr. C. W. Saleeby that he finds it needs "constant bracing up of the judgment" to hold to his faith in equal suffrage in the face of the extreme and objectionable theories advocated by some suffragists. He might get it very well braced by observing the attitude of the solid vice and villainy of the nation toward woman suffrage. On which side are all the undesirable classes of men that the colonel excoriates so severely those who beat their wives and neglect to support their children, the exploiters of women's labor and of child labor, those who profit by the white slave trade and the mass of its patrons? There is some bad company to be found on both sides; but by far the largest amount of the country's immorality is in the camp of the anti-suffragists.  Mrs. Howe had a much longer and wider experience of suffragists than the colonel. She often said that one of the pleasures resulting to her from her conversion to the cause was that it brought her into "such high company." She had expected to find the men and women working for it wild and objectionable; she found most of them the salt of the earth. There were some undesirables even in the early days, and with the enormous spread of the movement in recent years, all sorts of people have of course been swept into it;; yet Mrs. Howe could write in her reply to Mrs. Humphrey Ward, in the London Times of October 1, 1908: "In the experience of many years, I have always found the advocates of woman suffrage occupying higher moral ground than that held by their opponents." "We who are gathered here." she said at a suffrage convention, "are not condemners of marriage nor neglectors of home and offspring. We are individually allowed to be men and women of sound intellect, of reputable life." This has always been true of the great bulk of the suffragists. Woman's World Appointment of Miss Lathrop Gladdens Uplift Leaders. Women of the nation who are interested in the improvement of conditions under which children and women labor are unanimous in their approval of President Taft's selection of Miss Julia Lathrop of Chicago as the head of the recently created child bureau of the department of commerce and labor. The Rev. Anna H. Shaw of New York says: " "The appointment by President Taft of Miss Lathrop is highly gratifying to all women who are working in the cause of equal suffrage, the final purpose of which is to bring to bear upon social problems, and especially those affecting the child and the home, the special gifts and experience of women in appointing to this office one so extraordinarily well fitted by temperament and training for its peculiar duties President Taft has earned the sincere commendation of all suffragists and confirmed them In their expectation of a speedy removal of the restrictions that now shut them out from full participation in all the duties of citizenship." Mrs. Philip N. Moore of St. Louis. president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, says: "President Taft Is to be congratulated on his appointment of Miss Lathrop. This woman, by education, training and experience, is the right woman in the right place. With man or woman at the head the bureau deserves the best qualified person that could be found, and we believe the best has been obtained. We extend our approval and congratulations." EQUAL SUFFRAGE (Continued from page 1) The woman vote, according to Mrs. Wood,  was needed to remedy the economic  conditions which through low wages  and defective intelligence, create largely the country unmorality. Mrs. Senn gave a clever satire of the anti-suffragette speaker, that won large applause Dr. Luther Dyott of Portland spoke on the relation of suffrage to democracy and affirmed that suffrage, like nature's frocks, should know no sex. Mrs. Eara Bard Field Ehrgott closed the program with a brief panoramic view of the awakening of women of which suffrage, she declared, was only a local expression. She asserted that the withholding of the ballot from women, prevented the application to society of its most beneficial force. Miss Boswell of New York, talked at the afternoon program on the suffrage movement, taking occasion to criticize the school system in Panama, which she investigated for the government a few years ago. She gave an intensely interesting talk setting forth woman's progress in this country, adapting her talk especially to the industrial conditions in America today, factory labor, short hours for women labor, etc., and argued that through the votes for women movement these conditions would be effectively remedied. Mrs. Sarah Evans then called for the opposition or the "antis" and Dr. Wilson heroically responded to the call, laying especial stress on the old idea that "woman's sphere is the home not the ballot." Miss Giesha Breckenridge followed Dr. Wilson, again taking up the banner of the suffragists. Miss Breckenridge, a dele gate from Kentucky, answered the old argument that women should not vote because they cannot fight, and then responded to the counter-argument that women fight too much, particularly in England and she struck a happy medium for her hearers and the women seemed to agree that the women fought neither too much nor too little Miss Breckenridge told of the suffrage movement in Kentucky and pointed out particularly the improvement in the school system of bar own state, after women were allowed to vote. CHICAGO WOMAN TALKS ON ORGANIZATION OF WOMEN 'Men Are Taking Interest in Move," Declares Miss Alice Henry Higher Wages and Shorter Hours Favored. Kansas City, Mo. The importance of the organization of women in labor, not only to themselves, but to men, was emphasized by Miss Alice Henry of Chicago, editor of the official organ of the National Women's Trade Union league, in an address at Labor temple here. "The thing that strikes me in my trips through the country," said Miss Henry, "is the interest men every where are taking in the woman's movement. If the women do not organize to protect themselves, the lower wages which they receive will force down the wage scale of the men. At the present time 6,000,000 girls in the United States are working for an average wage of $6 a week, which means that some are getting less than that. To be efficient, women laborers must have higher wages and shorter hours." WORK UNDER UNSANITARY CONDITIONS New York. Sept. 28. Due to the findings of the state factory investigating committee that body is to demand from the legislature the wiping out of many of the awful conditions under which women labor in the Empire state. "Conditions under which women have to work here are inhuman beyond belief," declared Senator Robert F. Wagner, of the Investigating committee today. "The women In the slaughter houses in Buffalo, in the ore foundries at Utica and in the harvester twine plant at Auburn are especially to be pitied. In the slaughter houses they are forced to work on wet floors with no protection for their feet. In Utica and Auburn they are subjected to intolerable sanitary conditions. All of these women have to do man's labor. I look for the general establishment of these Investigating commissions." WOMEN FORCED TO  DO WORK OF MEN  Conditions in New York State Inhuman, Declares Senator Wagner. (United Press Leased Wire.) New York, Sept. 2S. Due to the findings of the state factory Investigating committee that body Is to demand from The legislature the wiping out of many of the awful conditions under which women labor in the Empire state. "Conditions under which women have to work here are Inhuman beyond belief," declared Senator Robert V. Wagner of the investigating committee today. "The women in the slaughter houses in Buffalo, in the ore foundries in Utica and in the harvester twine plant at Auburn are especially to be pitied. In the, slaughter houses they are forced to work on wet floors with no protection for their feet. In Utica and Auburn they are subjected to intolerable sanitary conditions. All of these women have to do men's labor. I look for the general establishment of these investigating commissions." RECONCILIATION. Before the Democratic Administration has completed its programme of tariff, trust, currency and conservation laws, new issues of the type described may have pushed those questions to one side in public estimation. The question will then be, not whether women's labor shall be restricted and regulated; not whether child labor shall be prohibited; not whether men who sell shoddy as wool, paper as leather, poison as food, shall be punished, but how the law shall do these things. There are many, of whom Jane Addams and Judge Lindsey are types, who regard a party as a mere instrument and will readily support any party which will do that which they consider of first importance. That party may well be the Republican party if progressive leadership is now accepted. It would then draw to its support, the whole band of social reformers which constituted the most sincere and disinterested element of Roosevelt's following. ENGLISH WORKING WOMEN USE MORE SANE METHODS Labor Conference Just Closed In London, Representing 55 Branches, Maps 0ut Sensible Reform Program. (By the International News Service.) London, Feb. 15. While nobody has much sympathy with the militant suffragette, nearly all belonging to the so called better classes of society, who have renewed their insane tactics and are trying to prove their political maturity by breaking windows and destroying letters deposited in street boxes, there is another class of women, not quite as prominent socially perhaps, who are demanding the vote in an entirely different manner, which cannot but win the respect of every thinking person. A woman's labor conference was held in London not very long ago. The pap pers did not say very much about it, nothing sensational happened, but still it is worthy of notice that In the midst of all the upheaval and disturbances created by the fate' of the franchise bill, representatives of 55 branches of the Women's Labor league assembled quietly in London and adopted a program for Which they will fight In an orderly and sensible way. Seventy-eight women delegates were present at the meetings. Their opinions differed on many less essential points, but in spite of this the meetings went on in such a quiet manner that a chairman was hardly necessary. These women demanded social reforms, very sweeping many of them, but they limited themselves to questions of vital Interest to women and proved clearly that full Justice can be done to women by male legislators, no matter how willing these are to be Just. Nearly half of the topics discussed at the conference related to children and motherhood, school clinics and meals, but a demand was also made for sex equality In relation to the marriage and divorce laws, and stricter measures against the white slave traffic. If our better educated suffragettes would follow the example of these representatives of laboring women, their prospects of victory would be far better than they are at present. The Illinois Vice Investigation. Eugene Daily Guard: The so called "white slave" investigation being conducted by the senate of the state of Illinois is striving to find out whether the immorality that prevails among the women workers in the big industrial centers is caused by inclination or conditions. Recently there testified before the commission two witnesses from two separate industrial and financial conditions in life, and their testimony was in sharp contrast. One was the millionaire head of one of the world's greatest mail order houses, and the other was a young girl stenographer. The millionaire employer stated emphatically that labor and wage conditions have no bearing on the degree of immorality that exists among women workers. It was his contention that the inclination of the individual kept her above contamination irrespective of whether her body was half starved or illy protected from the inclemencies of the weather. The stenographer testified that it was her experience and belief that the financial condition determined In a great many cases the moral rectitude of a large percentage of working women. The employer testified that a girl away from home could live on eight dollars a week, but in response to a question of one of the commission he stated that he did not know positively that it could be done because he had never tried it personally. This investigation, conducted by the city of Chicago, which, with the exception of New York, employs more women in its stores and commercial houses than any city in America, should arrive at some concrete, definite conclusion, which will be the starting point for a movement that will throw a protection around those young women who are forced to work for their maintenance.  It has long been contended that the great immorality that exists among women employes in the big department stores was not a moral question, but an economic one. That the condition of immorality is recognized as existing is apparent from the testimony of one who employs great numbers of women. He stated that he had never heard of a woman employe being blacklisted for immorality, but he had heard of the blacklist being used on Immoral men. This condition would seem to indicate that these large employers have winked at immorality among the women, while insisting upon clean, upright, moral habits for their men employes, and this is the contention of students of economics on this vice question. It is claimed that large employers of women labor have deliberately closed their eyes to the immorality for gain among their female employes, because It kept their own payroll smaller. Past investigations have proven that in times of financial duress, when factories arc closed and general depression exists in all lines, that the number of prostitutes increase tremendously. This would support the contention of many noble men and women who are striving to alleviate the condition of working girls, that more wages for the employes and smaller dividends to the employer would mean much less immorality among working women. Let us hope that the present investigation will give either the other states or the federal government a basis for a minimum wage bill for women which will eliminate the necessity of any Woman entering into an immoral life through sheer want. WORKS PLEADS FOR REGULATED WAGE AND DAY Moneyed Class Is Ruling Class and Arrayed Against Toilers Wage Earners Station Should Be Elevated and Employers Curbed. Women Greatest Sufferers by Prevailing Injustice Carnegie Censured Roosevelt's Party Slapped. WASHINGTON', May 5. Discussing the power of tho trusts, John D. Works of California, in the senate today, asserted that responsibility for popular unrest lies with nation's lawmakers fur allowing the masses to remain in a miserable condition. "The ruling class in America," said Senator Works, "is the moneyed class. Wealth, power and position are arrayed against men and women laboring for a livelihood. They regard themselves as superior to what they call the 'lower classes.' "The only effective way to overcome this evil is to elevate the station of the wage earners and to curb the powers of the employing class. No better way to accomplish this, it occurs to me, so far as law makin is concerned, can be conceived than to regulate prices and the wages and hours of labor. WORKS WANTS NATION TO FIX PRICES, WAGES: (United Press Leased Wire.) Washington, May 6. Discussing power of the trusts, John D. Work of California, in the senate today, asserted that responsibility for popular unrest lies with the nation's lawmakers for allowing the masses to remain in a miserable condition. "The Ruling class in America," said Senator Works, "is the moneyed class. Wealth, power and position are arrayed against men and women laboring for a livelihood. They regard themselves as superior to what thev call the 'lower classes.' The only effective way to overcome this evil Is to elevate the station of the wage earners and to curb the powers of the employing class. No better, way to accomplish this, it occurs to me, so far as lawmaking is concerned, can be conceived man to regulate prices and the wages and hours of labor." SUFFRAGETTE CONFESSES TO ARSON Wife of English Physician Gives Herself up and Says Fires Were Lighted as Beacons of Women's Wrongs. [By Associated Press to Coos Bay Times.] LIVERPOOL, July 10. A dramatic confession of incendiarism was made today by a well known militant suffragette, Mrs. Edith Rigby, wife or a physician at Preston, to a policeman here. Sho was remanded for a more extended hearing. Mrs. Rigby declared it was she who last Tuesday burned down the country estate at Rivington or Sir William Lever, causing damage estimated at $100,000. She Further confessed to being the perpetrator of an outrage at the Liverpool cotton exchange July 5, when a  bomb exploded but caused little damage. Mrs. Rigby surrendered voluntarily to the police. When arraigned  today, she gloried in her achievements, saying that she wanted Sir  William Lever to consider whether  his house was more valuable as a  show place than as a beacon lighted  for the King and the country to see  women suffering an insupportable  grievance. She said, "I chose the  Liverpool cotton exchange because  the cotton industry has been built  up largely by women's labor. Merchants are willing to get power and  wealth out of the labor of women,  while the women themselves are denied the right to vote and citizenship. SUFFRAGETTE ADMITS ARSON Also Claims She Blew Up Cotton  Exchange in London Liverpool—Mrs. Edith Rigby, mili-­ tant suffragette who has already been arrested and released on various occasions after undergoing hunger strikes, voluntarily gave herself up to The police and confessed dramatically  in court incendiarism.  Mrs. Rigby told of having burned Sir William H. Lever's $100,000 country residence at Rivington, near­ Horwich, Lancashire, as a "beacon lighted for the king and the country to see women suffering an insupportable grievance.” She also confessed to being the perpetrator of the dynamite outrage at the Liverpool Cotton Exchange July 5. "I placed the explosive in the stock exchange to show how easy it is to procure them and to place them in public buildings,” she said. "I might just as easily have blown up the Nelson monument. "I chose the Liver­pool Cotton Exchange because the cot-­ ton industry has been built largely by women’s labor. The merchants are willing to get power and wealth out of labor of women while the women themselves are denied the vote and citizenship. This is the first knock at door. Under the ‘cat and mouse’ act one of the greatest women in the land is going to be done to death. If the government is going to kill that woman, this is a warning.” Mrs. Rigby has been a member of the Women’s Social and Political Union, the militant suffragette organization, for many years, and has taken a great part in public movements to promote the welfare of women. She is the wife of a physician at Preston. WOMAN CHARGES SPIES KILLED UNION MEN Miss Gertrude Barnum. New York. July 22. That there is nothing at all surprising to her in the testimony of Colonel Martin M. Mulhall, self confessed lobbyist and strike-settler for the National Association of Manufacturers, is the statement of Miss Gertrude Barnum, daughter of a Chicago judge, college graduate and one of the most prominent women labor leader, in the United States. "The public," she said, "has no idea of the treachery, the graft, the lobbying and the trickery resorted to  In an effort to thwart the peaceful efforts of worker to improve industrial conditions. These unspeakable spies will stop at nothing. They will even resort to murder. A Morris Lubin, on trial In Cleveland, recently broke down on the witness stand and admitted that he had been hired to go to any lengths to smash the strike of the garment workers." NEW YORK DISTRICTS CHANGE; REALTY VALUES DROP OFF MILLIONS IN A YEAR Other statements in regard to the Standard of living in New York were: That there are thousands of women workers in New York who are living on $4, $5 and $6 a week, when $8 is the lowest income on which any woman should be expected to support herself. That one-third of the workingmen's families in New York do not have means to purchase sufficient food, clothing, shelter and other necessaries, and that this one-third and an additional one-sixth, or one-half altogether, cannot save for the time when support is cut off by the death, incapacitation or forced unemployment of the breadwinner. Many other things besides the income influence the standard or manner of living, the speaker said, the most important of them being cost of living. Prices in New York have soared 25 percent in the last 10 years, whereas the income has not advanced proportionately. Remedies for these conditions were put forth as: Adequate pay, the cheapening of amusements and the betterment of educational facilities, such as night schools, gymnasiums and clubs; improvement of conditions under which men and women labor, and the abolishment of the harmful forms of child labor; the Improvement of dwelling places, notably tenements, the training of mothers and housewives, the guiding of children along paths of strength, self-reliance and self-respect, and the regulation of prices. GOOD CITIZENS, MEN AND WOMEN LABOR ON STATE HIGHWAYS Salem, Or., May 2. Reports and pictures are still being received to show that some real work was done on Good Roads day, and that some real results were obtained. It is felt, however, that the greater and more lasting result will find expression in a future exemplification of the idea of better highways, and what each one can do to that end, this idea having been implanted in the minds of all who participated in, or read about, the activities of "Good Roads" day. Men, women and children, with their teams and outfits, gave a day of labor on state highways. The women, if they did not exert themselves with pick and shovel, did heroic work with skillet and coffee pot. INDUSTRIAL REVIEW OF THE STATE OF OREGON The Interurban Telephone Co. asks to be allowed to raise rates 21 cents per month on account of increased expense caused by minimum wage and eight hour law for women. LABOR. The producing of laborers is unlimited. Every baby is a competitor with every other baby to live. A nation is its people, not its few, and if the general Government can be called on to send its troops to strike regions, it has the right to prevent conditions that breed strikes. Women labor and child labor should be protected by Federal Laws. CAPITAL. Capital is stored up labor and goes, or should go, hand in hand with labor. It should not be recklessly assailed by prejudice, but in the last analysts property can never be so valuable as human beings. WAR PRICES STIR LABOR BRITISH RAILWAY UNIONS URGED TO DEMAND WAGE INCREASE. Employment of Belgians or Women Considered to Relieve Situation in Agriculture as Well. LONDON, Jan. 10. (Correspondence of the Associated Press.) The Increase in prices, brought about by the war, has resulted in unrest among the laboring classes and in widespread demands for better wages. The problem is complicated by the scarcity of labor in some trades, due in part to the number of men who have joined the army. Railway men in all parts of England have passed resolutions urging their union officials to make demands at once for an increase in wages. The manager of the Newcastle street railway system is considering the advisability of employing women car conductors. In many parts of the United Kingdom, agricultural laborers are agitating for an increase in wages. Various plans are under consideration, such as the employment of Belgians or women laborers or the exemption of skilled agricultural laborers from military service. ENGLISH LABOR MEN  OPPOSE CAMPAIGN TO RAISE RECRUITS Resolution Demands That Democracy Forever Abolish War In Europe ATTEMPTS OF CAPITAL TO DESTROY LABOR SEEN British Steamer Northlands Destroyed by Submarine -Crew Saved Norwich, Eng., April 6. Strong opposition to the British government's recruiting campaign developed here to0 day at the convention of the Independent Labor party. Resolutions were assed expressing disapproval of the  party or any members of it participating in Lord Kitchener's campaign to raise volunteers. The passage of these resolutions created great excitement in tho convention hall. A resolution was adopted calling for a worldwide movement "to construct the machinery by which the democracy of Europe will forever abolish war." Speakers declared capitalists everywhere are attempting to destroy the labor movement and to resume the exploitation of women's labor. A campaign to combat these influences was  strongly recommended. ENGLISH WOMEN ARE ANSWERING THE CALL FOR PEOPLE TO WORK Take Places of Men in Ammunition Factories; Men Have Gone to War, By Wilbur S. Forrest. London, May 12. (By Mail to New York.) Britain, like France, is now mobilizing her women to take the places of men who have gone to war. Thousands are answering the government's recent appeal and are step ping into the harness in scores of trades and occupations. They have flocked to the ammunition factories, army equipment works and industrial establishments in all parts of Eng land. When the British board of trade, England's "commerce and labor" department, issued the appeal, urging all women to enter themselves on the register of "Women for War" at the 400 labor exchanges throughout the country, the effect was practically instantaneous. Dignified butlers and footmen who served in brass and braid during peace times are now in khaki, while hundreds of trim parlor maids are performing the man-tasks with equal skill. The Londoner expresses no surprise nowadays when his laundered linen is de livered in a motor van driven by a smart, businesslike girl. The laundry man has gone to war with the butlers and footmen. English Women Ask For an Equal Wage London, May 29. The government civil service commissioners have announced the schedule of wages to be paid for clerical labor to women who will be employed to release males for military service. The weekly rates follow: Typists, 20 shillings ($4.80), ordinary clerical work, 21 to 25 shillings; shorthand typists, 26 shillings; supervising clerks, 80 shillings. These rates are from a fifth to a third lower than the wages paid to temporary male labor in the same positions, and women's associations and trades unions have lodged vigorous protests. They insist that women should be paid the same rates as the men they replace and urge that the government example will be used by outside employers to exploit women's labor to the detriment of men. Enter the Armament Factories.But the greatest majority of British city women have gone into the arma-ment factories. Lord Kitchener in the house of lords recently issued a call for speeding up the work In British industrial plants to satisfy the urgent seed for more army supplies. Hundreds of factories responded to the call and slipped their gears into high speed. This created extra places for workers. Men were scarce in the factory districts. They have gone to war. Then came the government's appeal to women of the land to exercise the"full working power" of Britain while the' "full fighting power" was in the field. Their patriotic response has been most pleasing to the government. It has in many cases eliminated the excuse for failure to enlist, and the men thus released are now enlisting by the thousands. Women Are Making Good. But the "chauffeuses" are not confining their activities to laundry vans. The National Motor Cab company boasts that every one of its large fleet of motor vans is driven by a girl. The regular chauffeurs are fighting for their king and country, for the traditional shilling a day, while the girls are garnering five shillings on the work they left behind. Women are driving autos and vans for a half dozen other large London establishments, whose heads are authority for the statement that their services are quite equal to those of their predecessors.  Several provincial cities have already passed into the unprecedented era of women 'bus and tram conductors. London's great system of under-ground railways, 'bus lines and tram lines are still manned by men, but the constant call of the war office for more recruits is bringing nearer this era in London, as it dawned at the beginning of the war in Paris. Women have now invaded exclusive men's clubs where previously they feared to tread. Men servants and waiters have discarded their livery for khaki, and the women have stepped into their shoes. The Athenaeum, one of London's most dignified and stately clubs, where women servants were previously unknown, is today served by attractive housemaids. Erudite bishops and learned professors who inhabit the club declare the innovation is "Jolly well fine." Women Make Munitions. STOCKHOLM, June 28. How female labor figures in Russia's organization of her industries for the production of munitions is told by Thomas Stephens, of a large American engineering firm. "Everywhere In Russia they are making the greatest possible use of women's labor," he says. "I visited one large factory where they made hand grenades and high explosive shells. I saw hundreds of women at work on lathes, drilling machines and stamping out machines. The manager told me that the women's labor was just as efficient as that of the men." Then and Now Bread and cake baking used to be a tedious operation. Now there is a machine to do it, so simple that a child can operate it. Chopping meat was hard work. A meat chopper now does it with the turn of the wrist. There are washing machines, dish washers - devices to lighten every branch of women's labor. The housewife who does not avail herself of these things toils unnecessarily. The advertising in The Oregonian is a good index to these modern de- vices and the stores that sell them. Women in Berlin Work on Big Jobs London, Nov. 6. (I. N. S ) Women are now being employed on public works in Berlin, according to the Copenhagen correspondent of the Morning Post. He has received a telegram from Berlin which says women are at work excavating the Friedrichstrasse tunnel, which is to form part of the underground railroad system of Berlin. "The utilization of women's labor for this purpose is so successful," the dispatch says, "that it is now intended to employ them on other big undertakings." Friday's War Moves To hasten the manufacture of munitions, the British government will place  semi-skilled, unskilled, and women  laborers with skilled laborers in factories under control of the government. Premier Asquith has announced  that the trades unions, which had  previously objected to this plan, were  now supporters of it.  RESOLUTIONS COVER A WIDE RANGE OF IMPORTANT ISSUES Resolutions reported out favorably by the resolutions' committee yesterday were concurred in as follows: Demanding strict enforcement of the Immigration laws of the United States. Federal legislation Requested. Requesting federal legislation on the questions of women's labor and prison contract labor and regulating the sale of prison made goods. Dr. Equi Has Fling. Dr. Equi continued for her allotted five minutes with a similar line of talk. She was followed by one J. M. Murphy, who thought that all women should be forced out of employment; that would give the idle men a chance to work and marry the women. Upsetting of Business Decried. W. P. Olds, of Olds, Wortman & King, expressed the attitude of all the department store operators in pointing out that further efforts to reduce the "working time of women employes will tend to work an inconvenience on the public. Labor Trouble Not Expected "In preparation for the return of peace we are making plans for renewed internal organization and external activity. This can and will be done along lines every neutral will regard as friendly. The efficiency of the British workingman has been raised during the war. The possibilities of increased output have been experienced. With an immense fund of labor set free at demobilization, we count on renewed activity in every important trade. The potentialities of women labor are now being tested.'' "Do you expect much labor trouble  after the war?" he was asked. "Those who speak for organized labor are not fools." Runciman replied. "They know perfectly well that only a complete co-operation of all classes will enable us to recuperate from the industrial and financial exhaustion of the war.  Every Woman Has a Right to a Hoosier The Hoosier means more than merely shelf-room -Built in closets scatter your kitchen work; the Hoosier Cabinet centralizes it. You can sit down restfully to prepare each meal with your utensils and food supplies already gathered and handily arranged at your fingers ends. The Hoosier way saves miles of steps and takes but half the time; has 40 inventions that save women labor. The cabinet includes the patented shaker flour sifter, the only sifter that shakes flour through instead of grinding it. It also has a complete accounting system : Mrs. Christine Frederick's Food Guide that answers that question-"What shall I have for dinner?". Remedies Are Suggested. Constructive social service in harmony with the Ten Commandments, the recognition of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, the adjusting of social inequalities along the lines of the encircle of Pope Leo XIII on the condition of labor, were the remedies for the existing conditions of labor and capital. He praised Oregon for its progressive laws regarding child and women labor, and Portland for its harmonious and progressive spirit of unity that does not allow religious bigotry and antagonisms to creep in and absolve its energies. Portland Women to Meet With Caminetti Portland women are Invited to attend a conference with Anthony Caminetti, commissioner general of immigration, at Library hall, in the Central library, at 2 o'clock tomorrow after noon. Mr. Caminetti will discuss with them the establishment and organization of a women's and girls division of the United States employment service. Over 6,000,000 women have indorsed the plan, which is an extension of the United States employment service now conducted for men by R. P. Bonham, director for Oregon. Women's Work Interests. "Their counter-demands on us to increase their exports to America were modest, reasonable and mutually beneficial in principle. The commission was impressed with the large number of plants operating under the largest standards of efficiency, and in general by the degree of talent, energy and fortitude displayed by the industrial classes.  "The war munitions industry is being ably, in fact brilliantly conducted under extremely trying conditions. The elements of women's labor which has become of such importance to the country's whole economic strength, excited the commission's unqualified admiration. The women of France are at their posts a loyally as the men in the trenches." Depression Not Local. The depression in the paper market during 1913 and 1914 were not local. Wisconsin, Michigan and other parts of the middle west and east felt the pinch. Mills there were shut down 11 completely or running on reduced shifts. It was reported here on good authority at one time in 1914 that unless there was a change for the better one or both of the local mills would shut down. During those months of free trade before the war, Norwegian paper could be laid down in American ports for less than the cost of the domestic  product. Wheat ships accepted cargoes of paper as bal'ast, charging importers little. Women labor in the mills in northern Europe and their wages are small. Up to two years ago Norwegian mills supplied the greater part of the world. Japan and Australia are buying pulp and paper from Oregon City mills now, because they cannot secure it from Norway, but those Norwegian mills are not idle. Immense stocks of paper are now on hand, and the exporters are ready to ship paper to any corner or the globe as soon as the conflict in Europe ends. The day the treaty of peace is Signed in Europe and tonnage is available, American paper manufacturers  must begin again their old fight to  hold their home market in the face  of foreign, cheap labor competition. CITIZENS OPPOSE BILL DELEGATION TO GO TO SALEM TO DEFEND TEN-HOUR. LAW. Senator La Follett's Measure Exempting; Cannery Women Employes to Be Fought at Capital. A delegation of prominent Portland men and women will go to Salem this week to protest to the Legislature against the passage of Senator La Follett's bill to permit women and children to work unlimited hours in canneries. At a meeting here Saturday a set of resolutions was adopted expressing disapproval of the La Follett bill which would exempt from the state ten-hour law "females employed in harvesting, packing, curing, canning and drying any perishable fruit or vegetable." At present the hours of women's labor is regulated by the Industrial Welfare Commission, but the La Follett bill would deprive the Commission of authority over women employed in the fruit and vegetable industry. Women's Labor Law Changed. La Follett's bill to exempt women employed in harvesting and fruit or vegetable drying, canning or packing from the provisions of the 10-hour-day law carried unanimously. Senator Olson, however, seconded by Senator Garland, first obtained an amendment providing that women employed in canning, drying and packing plants must be paid time and one-half over 10 hours. MORE WOMEN LABOR NEEDED IN ENGLAND Rich and Poor Alike Wanted For  Final Effort, as Employes in  Munitions Factories. By Frank Getty (By United Press to The Dally Bulletin) LONDON, March 2. England wants 20,000 more women for her second line of advance the munition factories. The first appeal, sent out by the ministry of munitions early this month, which called tor 8,000 women, was immediately met. Today, in making "a big spurt tor the last phase that will carry the men at the front into victory," the ministry wants 20,000 more. "We wane rich and poor alike for this final effort," an official at the ministry of munitions told the United Press. "In the early days of the war women with means were asked to stand on one side to lot working and professional women who had to earn their livings give service. Now we want all classes to come forward and help in the making of munitions, so that every woman can say in the near future that she has done her share." "We have found that physical qualities are no longer necessary tor the work. As long as the volunteer has delicacy of touch she belongs to the right type." "Women are at work now in all the danger zones and through their hands entirely munitions go from raw ignot to the finished article. They do the testing, overlooking, packing, sealing, lorrying, and actually place the goods In railway trucks tor the front."