Woman's Influence Proved. "It is a fact which to my mind has a great significance that there are only five states which have compulsory minimum wage laws for women, and every one of the five is a state where women have full rights of suffrage. It is a favorite contention of the opponents of the enfranchisement of women, that the rights of the female laborer are better safeguarded in non-suffrage states, but the facts regarding legislation for women laborers are directly in contradiction to this contention. "Several of the non-suffrage states have efficient and capable minimum wage commissions, which have been able through investigation and recommendation to do a great deal for their working women, but in no case is there a commission in a non-suffrage stats which has compulsory power. Russia to Mobilize Women. PETROGRAD, June 29. Minister of War Kerenski today issued an order creating a special commission to examine the proposed law providing for the mobilization of all women laborers. In issuing the order the war head commented that the crisis through which Russia is passing demands the utilization of the entire national forces. Jobs Are Seeking Men At the employment offices the men capable of getting past a recruiting sergeant were more numerous, but the larger number were elderly men. A. W. Jones, head of the Municipal employment bureau at Ankeny off Third street, explained that there were more now than in the winter. Wages are going up, and the demand for capable men is pressing. The men who come in from the mills with a little money are not tempted to drink or gamble, and they are looking for a better job. The light crops and cooperative work among farmers with the mobilizing of farm machinery, children and women labor, will keep wages down during harvest, he thought. WOMAN LABOR IDEA SPREADS IN CHICAGO SEVERAL LARGE PLANTS CONSIDER EMPLOYMENT. Several Hundred Work In Car Shops for 30 Cents Per Hour and All Wear Overalls. CHICAGO, July 30. Employment of several hundred women as laborers by the Ryan car plant, South Chicago, begun as an experiment several weeks ago, has proved so successful that several other large manufacturers are considering the advisability of adopting the plan. The women range in age from 18 to 45 years, receive 30 cents an hour and work eight hours a day. Experience has shown that in the lighter tasks the women perform as much work as men, but in the heavier lines one man will often do twice as much work as a woman. About 75 percent of the women who begin work at the plant remain, while the others quit after a few days. The women wear overalls and are provided with special washrooms. HELP WANTED WANTED Woman to do housework. Enquire First National Bank. 22-tf BOY WANTED Over 16, for steady  work; not going to school. Star Drug Co. 24-tf WANTED Women workers at the Ewauna Box Factory. Apply at office. 30-tf BOY WANTED Steady work all  winter. Klamath Electrical Supply Co. 30-tf. Women Make Good In English Army HEADQUARTERS OF WOMEN'S AUXILIARY CORPS, Behind British Lines In France, Aug. 20. Correspondence of the Associated Press Women's labor as a part of the' British army in France has now passed through its trial stage and won the approval of the army authorities. Women Take on Unusual Work. As more and more men were called to the front women were employed In unusual work. The new underground road in Berlin is being built largely by women labor. This is not so difficult a matter in Berlin as in New York, because Berlin is built upon a bed of sand and the difficulties of rock excavation do not exist. Women are employed on the railroads, working with pickaxes on the roadbed. Women drive the great yellow post carts of Berlin. There were women guards on the underground road, conductors on the tramways, and women even became motormen on the tramcars. Banks, insurance companies and other large business institutions were filled with women workers, who invaded the sacred precincts of many military and governmental offices. ENGLISH GIRLS HELP  ARMY IN FRANCE Letters Tell of Experience at the French Supply Bases. LIVE ON ARMY RATIONS Soon Accustom Themselves to Coarser Fare and Wool Blankets Without Sheets - Army  - Discipline Adhered to.  HEADQUARTERS OF WOMEN's AUXILIARY CORPS, BEHIND THE BRITISH LINES IN FRANCE, Aug. 20. (Correspondence of the Associated Press.) Women's labor as a part of the British army in France has now passed through its trial stage and won tho approval of the army authorities. HOUSEMAIDS JOIN UNION No Sunday Cooking and 8-Hour Day Objectives in Seattle. SEATTLE, Sept. 18. The Seattle Federation of Women's Trade Unions and Auxiliaries announced today that the organization of the Seattle Housemaids' Union was well under way. It is estimated that 2000 women are eligible to membership. The first step to be taken by the union will be to abolish Sunday cooking. The next will be to obtain legislation placing housemaids under the state eight-hour law. It is said by women labor leaders that there are 10,000 unorganized women and girl workers in Seattle. Keeping Rubber Away From Germans I visited one plant which sends out rubber bands by the carload, making enough every week to bury from sight a team of horses and a dozen men standing around them. It makes rubber belts and conveyors which are miles in extent and for hospital use rubber sheets which would cover acres. Akron has factories that make rubber goods for every possible want, from the nipple that feeds milk to the baby to the hot water bottle that warms the chilled feet of the aged on the edge of the grave. It makes rubber boots for the trenches and diving suits for going under the sea. It makes dirigible balloons for piercing the clouds and airplane tires to soften the descent of the great flying machines as they land from the skies. It makes, in short, so many things of rubber that the names alone would take more space than I have for this letter. Many of its products are of vital necessity to us in our war with the Germans, and the most of the factories are now working on war orders. There are 30 establishments all told. They cover thousands of acres, and some of the larger of them have as many as 10,000 men and women laboring away under one roof. GERMANY DEPENDENT  ON WOMEN LABORERS Rotterdam, Netherlands, Sept. 26. (Correspondence of the Associated Preset--The German empire, to some extent, has become dependent upon women's labor, declares a German correspondent of the Nieuwe Rotterdam Courant. In the hospitals, at railroad stations, in shops and in offices, even in the most responsible positions, the work is principally done by women. In even first class restaurants girls and women have replaced the waiters. The traveller who enters a hotel encounters a porter in long skirts, who carries out his behests as quickly as before. Street traffic is largely in the hands of the women. Women conductors, drivers and inspectors are dressed in the uniform of their male colleagues but with skirt or bloomers. Passengers meet with better treatment than was the case with the male staff. On the railroads are women serving in booking offices, as guards on the trains, or porters. Letters and telegrams are delivered by women and girls. Most of the few automobiles are driven by women. But the main work of women is in the factories. The skilled work has now more and more passed into their hands, as well as the carrying of heavy loads. At the turning bench at the furnaces, everywhere they are met with. Their wages at 7 or 8 marks a day are equal to men's earning for like labor. They work in blue smock frock and bloomers with a sort of sailor's cap or cloth on their heads, with black hands and rolled-up sleeves; and in the meal hour they are more and more to be seen in the street, even with bare legs, for stockings are a superfluity in factories, at the furnaces and such like occupations.  The results of women's work In the mining industry are termed very satisfactory. The sorting of sweepings, old iron and brass, the unloading of freight cars, is performed by woman's hands and arms, and a newcomer is amazed at the way in  which she clambers about and lifts and shoulders loads. In agriculture women have always supplied auxiliary labor, but now also do the heavy  work like mowing, plowing and  threshing.  Dress has naturally been brought into accord with the new work. On the railroads, and partly on the street cars, skirts have been replaced by bloomers and gaiters and beribboned and feathered hat or cap  or head-cloth. But there is a sailer  collar for the uniform jacket, and a  flower in the button hole: the jacket  is open at the neck, a watch chain  is fastened on the breast, a bit of  lace adorns the sleeves. SUBMARINE MENACE NOT YET CONTROLLED SAYS LORD GEDDIS Decrease In Loss of Shipping But Too Much Optimism Is Dangerous London, Nov. 16 The submarine menace is not yet under control, Sir Eric Geddess, first lord of the admiralty, told the house of commons this  afternoon. He solemnly warned against over optimism because of recent official statements showing great decreases in the loss of shipping. "Last week's report of our losses by submarines, does nut indicate that the submarine menace is controlled," the minister asserted, "It is essential that our allies know that economy is necessary. Shipyards are short of men. Women labor sent them will directly affect the winning of the war. DIVERS NOT YET UNDER CONTROL LONDON. Nove. 16.J The submarine menace is not controlled, Sir Eric  Geddes, first lord of the admiralty,  told the house of commons.  Geddes warned against over optimism because recent official statements  show great increase in submarinings.  "Last week's report of our losses  doesn't indicate the submarine menace controlled," Geddes declared. "Its  essential our allies know economy is  necessary. Shipyards are short of men. The women labor sent them  will directly affect the winning of the war. Momentarily we are holding the submarines." THE WAR BEHIND THE FRONT Women are said to be employed as "section men" on the Pennsylvania system and this mitigates the horror of contemplating women laboring in the fields of Europe. Sir Geddes Sounds Warning London, Nov. 16. (U. P.) The submarine menace is not yet under control, Sir Eric Geddes, first lord  of the admiralty, told the house of  commons this afternoon.  He solemnly warned against over-optimisim because of recent official  statements showing great decreases  in the loss of shipping. "Last week's repot of our loses  by submarines does not indicate that  the submarine menace is controlled,"  the minister asserted.  "It is essential that our allies know  that economy is necessary. Shipyards are short of men. Women  labor sent them will directly affect  the winning of the war.  "Momentarily we are holding the  submarines, but I repeat my warning."  Recent statements have shown a  regular decrease in sinking week  by week, so that the public in England for the last few days has been  jubilating more or less in the belief that the problem had been solved. NAVY EMPLOYS WOMEN LARGE CLOTHING PLANTS GIVE WORK TO GENTLER SEX. Consideration Now Being Given Proposition of Introducing Woman Laborera in Gun Factories, Navy-yards. WASHINGTON, Dec. 23. (Special.) Unable to compete with private indus tries in holding men employes because of the increased wages paid by the latter, the Navy Department has resorted to the employment of women in several of its big manufacturing plants, it became known today. Practically all of the Summer clothing used by the Navy is made by female workers in the large clothing plants in New York and Charleston, S. C., operated under naval control. Inability to procure men in the cartridge bag sewing departments of the ordnance storehouses in New York and other naval centers has brought about the employment of a large force of women. Consideration is now being given the proposition of introducing women labor in many of the Navy-yards and gun factories on work that does not require skilled mechanics. Women Labor in Garments 2 Years Old. Lincoln Heeds Nation's Call In Wartime By Marie Canel A class in sociology will be held next term under the instruction of E. E. Schwartztrauber. The class will intermingle sociology, and will study modern problems including the employment of women, labor organisations, poverty, crime and the distribution of wealth. FARMS SEEK WOMEN National Registration Plan Department of Labor. SHORTAGE OF MEN MET Federal Employment Agencies Will Make Every Effort to Provide for Moving Crops of 1918, However Large They May Be. WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. National registration of women available for work on farms is planned by the Department of Labor as one of the advance steps in a campaign to secure a sufficiency of farm labor for every section of the country during the coming season. A. L. Berkman, chief of the division of farm service, announced tonight that every effort would be made to meet the expected shortage of farm labor by a plan to mobilize the available men and women in every community in the country. Heavy snows in the MidWest, he said, should mean a large wheat crop, and if the favorable weather continued one of the biggest yields on record may be expected. A special farm service man will be stationed in most of the 94 Federal employment agencies of the country, Mr. Berkman said, and, in addition, post-offices in the small farming communities will be used as recruiting stations, the postmaster or some other representative citizen acting as community labor agent. he farmers, Mr. Berkman said. "will have to increase wages much more than they have to get men to come from the cities. They have not raised wages anywhere in proportion to their increase in profits." Women, Mr. Berkman continued, will be needed for truck gardening, fruit gathering, dairying and other light forms of labor, but they will not be called upon for the heavy work so long as men are available. The college girls and the women of the leisure classes who are ready to respond to a call for workers as a matter of patriotic service," Mr. Berkman said, "must be depended upon chiefly for the women labor that will be needed." New York Factories Filling War Orders Albany, N.Y., Feb. 9 Five hundred factories, employing 261,117 persons, are filling war orders In New York state.  About 176 of these plants are calling for additional labor. Skilled male labor is called for in nearly three fourths of the cases, and women labor in a little more than one tenth. Unskilled male labor is wanted in about one seventh of the unfilled places. REGISTERING WOMEN AVAILABLE FOR FARM WORK PLANNED NEXT Purpose Will Be to Relieve as Far as Possible Scarcity of Male Labor. National registration of women available for work on farms is planned by the department of labor as one of the advance steps in a campaign to secure a sufficiency of farm labor for every section of the country during the coming season. A. L. Barkman, chief of the division of farm service announces:  "Women will be needed for truck gardening, gathering fruit, milking, and other light forms of labor." "The country faces a shortage of farm labor next season. The heavy snows in the Central West should mean wheat aplenty. If the favorable weather conditions continue, one of the biggest yields on record may be expected. The problem now is to get a plentiful supply of labor, and on this the division of farm service is at the present concentrating its energies. "The most serious farm labor shortage last year was in the East. The industries there filling war orders took men who otherwise would have been available for farm work by the offer of attractive wages. The farmers will have to increase wages much more than they have to get men to come from the cities. They have not raised wages anywhere in proportion to their increase in profits. "The college girls and the women of the leisure classes who are ready to respond to a call for workers as a matter of patriotic service must be depended upon chiefly for the women labor that will be needed." REGISTERING WOMEN AVAILABLE FOR FARM WORK PLANNED NEXT Purpose Will Be to Relieve as Far as Possible Scarcity of Male Labor. National registration of women available for work on farms is planned by the department of labor as one of the advance steps in a campaign to secure a sufficiency of farm labor for every section of the country during the coming season. A. L. Barkman, chief of the division of farm service announces:  "Women will be needed for truck gardening, gathering fruit, milking, and other light forms of labor." "The country faces a shortage of farm labor next season. The heavy snows in the Central West should mean wheat aplenty. If the favorable weather conditions continue, one of the biggest yields on record may be expected. The problem now is to get a plentiful supply of labor, and on this the division of farm service is at the present concentrating its energies. "The most serious farm labor shortage last year was in the East. The industries there filling war orders took men who otherwise would have been available for farm work by the offer of attractive wages. The farmers will have to increase wages much more than they have to get men to come from the cities. They have not raised wages anywhere in proportion to their increase in profits. "The college girls and the women of the leisure classes who are ready to respond to a call for workers as a matter of patriotic service must be depended upon chiefly for the women labor that will be needed." INDEX OF TODAY'S NEWS War. Britain's women labor to help win war. GERMANY VERY SHORT OF MALE LABOR THIS YEARWomen Take Places in All Branches of Industrial Activity RAILROADS USING MANY Competition Between Plants Boosts Wages of Labor Vigorously NEW YORK, Feb. 28. Germany has been extremely short of male labor this winter, according to German newspapers. The latest official labor statistics published show that there were only fifty-six applicants for every one hundred vacancies for male workmen. The market for female laborers showed for the first time since the early days of the war an over-supply, 108 applicants being registered for every hundred positions. The Prussian state railroads alone employ over one hundred thousand women in various capacities from section hand to railroad conductor.Before the war there were barely ten thousand women on the payrolls of the state railways, employed largely as scrubwomen although they were also found in the telegraph department, as clerks in various bureaus and sometimes as crossing tenders. Minister Von Breitenbach, head of the Prussian ministry of ways and communications said that if the war continued the number of women employed would increase even further in order to release more men for the colors. He stated in the Leipsic Illustrated Zeitung that the women laborers had in general proved fairly satisfactory, attributing this in part to the fact that the use of trousers had been made compulsory and hinted that skirted employes in the traffic department and on the road-bed would have been far less efficient. He said that in duties of a predominantly mental character, women were practically as efficient as men.When mental ability must be combined with strength and physical skill, as in the case in most branches of the operative departments, the women, he declared, could not keep pace with the men, while, in positions requiring chiefly qualities of muscle and endurance, such as those of track repairers, for example, the women reached only 50 to 75 percent of the efficiency of the male laborers. For this reason Minister Breitenbach apparently looked upon the employment of women in such large numbers upon the railroads only as a temporary expedient, to be gradually abandoned after the conclusion of the war. THE WOMEN'S LAND ARMY. Difficulties in the way of making  further use of the labor of women on  the farms of the United States, according to reports of investigators,  have not been entirely overcome as  the result of experiments made last  season. It will surprise most persons,  however, to learn that the number of  women engaged in agriculture in the  United States in 1910 is given by the  United States census for that year as  1,807,050, whereas in 1900 the number was recorded as 977,336, showing  an increase in ten years of nearly 85  percent.  The increase in the number of women classified as "agricultural laborers" in the same period was 129 percent from 661,103 in 1900 to 1,514,107 in 1910. It is true that most of  these were employed on their home  farms, but by no means all of them  were so engaged. The number recorded in the census as "working out"  in 1910 is 337,522.  The director of the census in his  analysis of the figures for 1910 made  the significant comment that the detailed percentage increases were "useful mainly to show that the increase  in female farm laborers was general  throughout the United States and was  not confined to the South," and, consequently, it did not involve a question  of race. He admits that there may  have been errors in enumeration, by  which too many children were classified as farm laborers, and he makes  an allowance for probable errors, which  reduces the whole number of women  engaged in "agricultural pursuits" to  1,338,950. Even the smaller number,  however, will be a revelation to those  who have not studied the subject carefully. It shows that nearly one-sixth  of all the women employed in gainful  occupations in the country are actually  at work on farms.  It is commonly supposed that a  much larger proportion of women  have been engaged in farming in Europe than in the United States. However true this may have been as to  the Continent, the figures for 1911  for Great Britain and Ireland give  only 120,000 as the number of women  doing agricultural work. There was  an increase of 44,500 between April,  1914, and April, 1917, and of the  2,000,000 women in England at present under the military law as war  workers, 60,000 are enrolled in the  "land army." The number is still short. In proportion to population, of that in the United States. The problem of women's labor on farms in this country is intimately associated with that of men. It is largely a question of finding competent workers and fitting them to the jobs. Rates of wages enter into it. too. But there is, in the case of women "working out," a special need of suitable housing facilities. This problem was only partly solved last year by the establishment of women's camps on central locations. Conditions of living are more important in the case of women than in that of men. Where a group of men might regard a certain amount of roughing it as a lark, this would not be tolerable where women's labor is employed. Social questions of a more or less pressing nature are also interwoven with the whole. Success of the women's farm labor movement would seem to depend largely upon not attempting too much, and upon thorough organization which will permit the assignment of volunteers to the work in which they are likely to be productive in the best sense. Any wholesale attempt to pitchfork women into all the places formerly held by men, including the heavier forms of labor, would be foredoomed to failure. Yet one venture, started by a committee appointed by the Mayor of New York in 1917, indicated that women who were wisely assigned to tasks within their physical powers were capable of earning satisfactory wages.  But it is also the opinion of students that the widest field for women's agricultural activity lies on the farms where they are members of the family, rather than in any extensive plan of "working out." Women living in farm homes will serve best by educating themselves to obtain greater results in already tried departments. Many now excel in farm management, and the farm garden movement last season owed a large part of its success to the planning, as well as the actual labor, of women. Women's opportunity in the crisis is large, but it does not follow that there must be a return to primitive conditions or that we should revert to a peasant system in which both men and women joined In identical physical labor of the hardest kind. Household Hints It is now incumbent upon us to see how far we can substitute the labor of women for that of men, says the New Republic. Before the war it would doubtless have been urged that the private interest of employers had already introduced women's labor wherever this would pay. We have now learned that mere inertia is an important determinant of industrial arrangements. The British government is employing women where it formerly employed only men, and with results that are satisfactory from a financial point of view, as well as from the more essential point of view of economy of national resources. At the Woolwich arsenal, for example, only 125 out of the 10,866 persons employed in August, 1914 were women according to the latest available reports, 25,000 out of 75,500 now employed are women. Women make up over 60 percent of the personnel of the department of design and inspection. In private industry women have found their way into numberless employments formerly monopolized by men. In this movement toward the employment of women the private interest of the employer has been reinforced by patriotic considerations. Doubtless in many instances women are employed where it would be more profitable to employ men, even at scarcity wages. But in time of war such a consideration is of no determining importance. Women Workers Urged For Farms Senate Agricultural Committee Hears Experience of Canada  Under War Conditions.  WASHINGTON, March 2S. (U. P.) The enrolling of a vast army of  women workers to help raise the corps of the nation was today advocated by Miss St. John (Wileman of Ottawa, Canada, who appeared before the senate  agricultural committee. She had been active in her own country in enlisting women farm workers.  "The time is ripe for tapping the great reservoir of women labor for the farms as we have in Canada," she declared. "It has been demonstrated that, three woman can accomplish the same amount of work as two men and they are often more efficient and stick to their jobs better.  Statistics both in Canada and England showed that the women have suffered no ill effets from their work. Instead, they are fat, ruddy ana of good physique." COMMUNITIES MUST HELP SOIVE FARM LABOR QUESTIONS Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Has Issued Statement on Women's Work. Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Clarence Ousley has made public a statement on women's labor on the farm in response to many requests from women all over the country who wish to do farm work. Assistant Secretary Ousley says:  While women can do much in the solution of the complex and rather pressing farm labor problem it should be understood that the man power of the country is not yet exhausted and that except for certain lighter tasks men are better adapted than women for farm labor. While much is being done by the Departments of Agriculture and Labor to mobilise man power for farming operations much yet remains to be done if we are to make sure the saving of the crops which are now being planted. The primary responsibility must be assumed by the regions and communities most vitally affected, because no agency of government can create labor or compel men to pursue any particular vocation. In all towns and cities adjacent to agricultural regions there are many men of farm experience who can be spared for a day at a time or a week at a time, as the case may be, to help the farmers with their most pressing tasks. In releasing the men of farm experience in the cities for farm labor many women can be utilized to take their places for a few days at a time or for a whole season. Generally speaking, it will become more and more necessary for women to take the place of men In all occupations. In addition to relieving men in towns and cities women can actually perform many farm tasks, such as dairying, vegetable cultivation, fruit gathering, etc. The practice method of utilizing women for farm labor cannot be prescribed in any uniform plan, but it will depend upon conditions in the community and upon the farms. Of course, steps must be taken to see that women laborers are properly housed and otherwise are safeguarded from unnecessary hardships. Women Work at Gas Work London April 20. (I. N. S.) Women are making London's gas. Three out of four retort houses of the South Metropolitan Gas company are being run entirely by women labor. Even the supervisors are women. Reports received from state and  federal employment bureau by the  United States employment service, department of labor, indicate a shortage of women labor in 34 cities. The  greatest demand is for domestics and  next, factory workers. Twenty of the  34 cities report a scarcity of domestics. Nine report a demand for factory workers. Eight Million Shots for the Kaiser (Copyright, 1918, by Frank G. Carpenter.) I have been especially interested in the work of the women. They labor away side by side with the men, and still there is but little conversation or gossiping going on. The output fixes the pay and so both time and work are money. Some of the girls are making from $25 to $35 a week, and some of them are making more than men at the same job. They like the work, and the households of Hartford are having a famine in women's labor on account of the domestic servants leaving and going into the munitions factories. One of the highest officials of this pistol-making plant recently had a warning from one of his house maids that she was going to leave. He asked her what was the matter. She replied she was going to work in Colt's factory, where they would give her more wages. He said. "They won't give you a job; and if they do I'll fire you." But he thereupon raised her wages so that they were equal to those of the girls in the pistol plant, and I am told she is still on the job. The officials say that the women are steadier than the men and that they lose less time. They are in such demand that in certain of the firearms factories of this region any woman may come in and work for a certain number of hours per day at piece-work. All that is required is that she must tell just when she will come and that she be there regularly for the time fixed. Some women work from 10 to 12 in the morning, and many school teachers add to their income by putting in two or three hours a day after school is over. I am told that the people of New Haven are worried for fear that after hours' work of the teachers in the factory may decrease their efficiency in the schools. The Colt plant making automatic pistols is a nine-hour shop, but the employes are urged to work longer and are paid for the amount they turn out. Some of the men stop at 5 o'clock. some at 6 and some at 7 P. M. Many of them lay off the day after payday, and on Monday it is especially difficult to get a full force. The women are more conscientious and they lose but little time. UNION WELCOMES WOMEN Same Pay as That of Men Displaced by War Expected. ABERDEEN, Wash., June 26. (Special.) Women who take the places of men due to war conditions will be welcomed into labor organizations which will seek for them the same pay as that given men workers, President W. M. Short told the State Federation of Labor convention here today. The remark was warmly applauded Following this statement President Short said that the labor movement in Washington will so change the complexion of the next Legislature as to assure more adequate protection for child and women labor. The first resolution passed bv the convention pledged organized labor of the state to "the cause of democracy and freedom." Mt. Tabor P.-T. Association Elects Mrs. J. A. Eastman Is Chosen President and Mrs. S. Elliott Finch Vice President. By Vella Winner There are now 3,378,998 women registered for service according to their specialized talents under the woman's committee of the Council of National Defense, The majority are registered for industries and agriculture. This census is being taken by the state committees of the council. These figures represent the incomplete registration returns from 25 states. The census taking has been retarded by the tremendous amount of clerical work, and in some districts by the misunderstanding of persons who believed that the act of registering was equivalent to compulsory labor. A second registration drive will begin in the early fall. The Pennsylvania division has carried the registration through to the extent that the organization is able to report 1481 "placements" of women in work. An informative campaign will precede the second drive. Women librarians in the camp hospitals are to wear uniforms. The commanding officers in charge at the different cantonments have asked the American Library association, which supplies these librarians through its library war service, that uniforms be adopted. The uniform is a natural-colored pongee shirt-waist dress, worn with a white collar and dark brown tie. On the sleeve is a dark brown brassard, bearing the letters A. L. A. A Panama hat with a brown hand and an A L. A pin is part of the uniform, which was chosen as the most practical for summer wear in all parts of the country. Women in War Work Women stenographers and typists are now being enrolled in the Naval Reserve as yeomen. Over 3000 women are at work in the production of gas masks at the Long Island gas-defense plant. AMERICAN GIRLS BECOME SUCCESSFUL MILK DEALERS American girls are fast becoming efficient dairy farmers at the various agricultural training camps. One of the first of these was established at Purdue university, where the girls were trained to test milk, dairy bacteriology, general dairying and the art of cheese making and ice cream manufacture. Likewise, from California to Maine, agricultural colleges are training thousands of young ladies to step in and take the place of men already engaged in dairying, or to aid the present force to increase the production of these food products. Of this work the professor in charge at Purdue says: "Women must take men's places in order that food production be maintained. Of the many lines of production now necessary, none is more applicable to women labor than certain parts of the dairy industry. The scarcity of men who can carry on the many phases of the work required by the dairy industry is a serious handicap  to its efficient and proper development. As a matter of personal patriotism, as well as national service.  it behooves all to serve at this time in the most effective way." It was with this end in view that the various colleges and universities have designed courses to prepare women to fill the positions in factories manufacturing the various dairy products. The courses have been limited to women only, that there be no hesitancy associated with joining the classes. The classroom work is composed mostly of lectures, although in certain instances, special readings  from assigned texts are used. Laboratory exercises give personal experience in the operation of the various processes, and the major amount of time of the course is devoted to this class of work. Any woman may become an efficient milk tester, cheese or ice cream maker who has had a good common school education. No entrance examination is demanded, though all are expected to have passed the 8th grade. This gives the student a good intellectual foundation upon which to base the dairy industry course she may choose to take. Farmers' daughters and young women who lives in the country or on farms will do well to take this course of training. Wage Increase for Women Considered Olympia, Aug. 29. (I. N. S.) The war conference of the Washington state industrial welfare commission in ses- sion here today is considering demands of women's labor unions for a minimum wage scale for women of $16 to $18 a week and double time for Sundays and holidays. Several employers have appeared at the conference and spoken in favor of a new minimum wage, owing to the advanced cost of living. PORTLAND MAY BENEFIT VANCOUVER FEARS RESULT WAGE INCREASE. Employers of Women Labor Anxious to Know What Oregon Commission is Going to Do. VANCOUVER, Wash., Sept 1. (Special.) The action of representatives of employers and employes in war conference with the Industrial Welfare Commission in raising the wages of girls and women to $13.20 per week, a flat salary, may have the effect of assisting Portland at the expense of local employers of feminine labor, unless the Oregon Commission takes similar action and raises the minimum of wages to the same standard in Portland. The old scale was $8.90 to $10 per week. The new rate, which will become effective as soon as approved by the commission, is to be effective for at least six months after the war. The number of hours women may work is fixed at eight by legislation. Local employers of women labor are not complaining so much about the rise they will no doubt have to pay, but are interested in what the Oregon Commission is going to do. Portland laundries solicit business in Vancouver and do the work in Portland, where the scale is lower. It is the same in other industries. It may be, however, that the higher wage will attract help to Vancouver, and just now getting enough help is a serious problem. WOMEN WORKERS MEET Plans for Liberty Loan Campaign Are Discussed. Mrs. Emma I. Holmes, chairman of the fourth liberty loan committee of the women's labor unions of Portland, met with women of the clerks', waitresses', telephone operators', garment-workers' and laundry-workers' unions in the Central Library last night to discuss plans for the coming drive. Union women will obtain pledges among their own members and turn them in to the committee at headquarters. Only a small representation of union women appeared at the meeting, and Mrs. Holmes has called a meeting for Monday night in the Library to assemble all representatives for a final conference. WOMEN ON RAILROADS. The number of railroad jobs that women are able to hold has increased tremendously since the war began. One of the first new jobs for women was car cleaning, and they have been engaged in this work in the Boston yards of the Boston & Albany Railroad for many months. Now the railroad administration contemplates the employment of women almost exclusively as clerks, accountants, ticket sellers, station agents, crossing watchmen, and car cleaners, in which jobs they can release men for the army or for more important work. To some extent. It is understood, women will be employed as track laborers. Every effort will be made to guard the safety and health of these women workers, and it is probable that the work of the women in industry service of the department of labor will bo of great value in solving problems connected with their employment. Women will be paid the same as men for the same work. English and French railroads were long ago compelled to hire women for railroad work on an extensive scale. In France the women even act as firemen on locomotives There are training schools for women ticket agents in several large cities already, where young women between the ages of 21 and 35 years are given two months courses in railroad geography and simple accounting. They are paid $25 a month while learning and afterwards receive from $65 to $200 a month. The "Deneor Opportunity School" is a unique institution which is creating now fields for women's labor. More than 100 young women and girls have learned automobile operating and repairing there within the lost few months, in order to fit themselves for such service and to release men for the army or munition shops. FIRST WOMAN CHIEF  OF STAFF ELIZABETH CHRISTMAN Miss Elizabeth Christman, a  member of the Woman's Trade  Union League of Chicago, has  gone to Washington to take up  her duties as chief of a staff of  women examiners for the National  War Labor Board, which is another step forward in the government's new policy toward the  problems of women's labor. At a well attended meeting of citizens last night at the Commercial club the war labor community board for Medford was organized as follows: T. W. Miles to represent the government; Arthur L. Hill to represent the employers with J. H. Tomlin as alternate; Mrs. N. M. Stover to represent the employers for women; W. T. York to represent men labor; with IH. C. Stoltze as alternate; and Mrs. Edna Isaacs to represent women labor. The hoard was to meet late this afternoon with government representatives from Portland who would sanction the appointments and give instructions, following which the board was to organize. Wartime Women Find Much  Work to Do. Occupations Ordinarily Masculine  Now Recruited With Highly Efficient Femininity.  WOMEN may soon be employed as conductors on Portland streetcars. Essential war work is steadily depleting manpower. Cars of the Portland Railway, Light & Power lines are standing idle at the barns during rush hours of daily travel because there are not enough men to operate them. The matter has been discussed at meetings of the union of street railway employe. While the employment of women has not been regarded with favor by some of the men already in service, it may become a necessity for the period of the war. Women are doing valiant service in the shipyards and in various industrial lines in Portland. They have proved their ability to make good. There are approximately 12,000,000 pay envelopes handed to American women and girls every week, or month, and out of this rapidly growing total considerably more than 1,500,000 go to women engaged exclusively in war industries or essential employment as it is now designated. The war motto, "The men must fight and women must work," has become the most vivid and practical evolution of the titanic struggle of the nations of which history has any record. In the direct war industries alone the following figures have been compiled from Government and other sources, as indicating the growth of the mighty army of women workers: 275,0O0 women in textile mills; 205,000 women in canneries; 212,000 women as sewing machine operators; 130,000 women in knitting and hosiery mills; 100,000 women mechanicians: 100,000 women in munition plants; 400,000 women making military equipment; 100,OOO women shoe workers. The Government at Washington employs over 50,000 women in clerical work in various war activities. There are more than 2,000,000 women farmers. Women drive motor tractors, they hoe, pitch hay, groom horses, milk cows, feed and care for the stock, and more than 250,000 of them own and operate their own farms. Approximately 500,000 women are working in munitions and equipment plants, making guns, gas masks, tent poles, cots, axes, spades, scientific instruments and parts of airplanes and a multiplicity of other materials needed in the direct and immediate prosecution of the war. There are women chauffeurs, taxicab drivers and women police. Eight Portland women wear police badges. New York City has a police reserve of over 6000 women today. Women are building automobiles and motor trucks; they are running elevators; they are cigar salesmen, draughtsmen, electricians and street car conductors. One of the marvels of the war condition has been the easy adaptability of the fair sex to the work of men in almost every conceivable line of industrial activity except where there is the need of mere physical strength. The British War Office in a recent report answered succinctly the question, "Can a woman do a man's work?" by showing that in nearly 1800 jobs at which women are employed in Great Britain a woman is "just as good as a man, and for some of them better." Tanks Work of Women. British shipyards have launched ships built almost entirely by women labor. The great host of tanks that are doing their valiant part in the crushing of the Huns is the product of female labor almost exclusively. Government and labor commission reports show that women are engaged in the following lines, and doing their work efficiently: Bakeries, sugar factories, starch and glucose factories, lead pencil factories, gas works and light work in storage houses. They operate tool machines, band saws, lathes and planes and at nail and screw-driving in woodworking establishments. They are working in railroad offices, yards, car shops, machine shops and in various operating capacities. They are cleaning, painting and even making cars. They are engaged in quarrying and in building occupations, in foundries, in constructional engineering as helpers and operators. Tasks Taken In Shipyards.  In shipbuilding they are doing electrical wiring, drilling and weaving oakum; they are engaged in power plants; they are in the chemical industries, printing trades, brush making, tailoring, leather trades, and all lines of public service. In one of the great Navy-yards over 5000 women and girls are employed. One rifle and munition plant has nearly 2000 women on its regular payroll. The Pennsylvania Railroad has approximately 5000 women employes, and scores of other steam roads have hundreds at work in various capacities. In electric railway service, in all lines of work, the number is wall over 10,000, and growing by leaps and bounds. From the standpoint of working conditions, so far as observation and investigation goes, there has been no discrimination against women workers as to either hours or wages. Traction Linen Feel Draft. The tremendous inroads the drafts and competing war industries have made on the operating staffs of the street railway companies has presented the most trying problem this industry has ever faced in order to keep up its service to traffic requirements. At the same time it brings the women into direct contact with the public more than in any other industry where the gates have been thrown open to the fair sex. The movement to supplant men conductors with women on the cars will gain even greater headway than at present when the full effect of the recent 18-45 draft is reached. 