EQUAL SUFFRAGE (Continued from page 1) The woman vote, according to Mrs. Wood,  was needed to remedy the economic  conditions which through low wages  and defective intelligence, create largely the country unmorality. Mrs. Senn gave a clever satire of the anti-suffragette speaker, that won large applause Dr. Luther Dyott of Portland spoke on the relation of suffrage to democracy and affirmed that suffrage, like nature's frocks, should know no sex. Mrs. Eara Bard Field Ehrgott closed the program with a brief panoramic view of the awakening of women of which suffrage, she declared, was only a local expression. She asserted that the withholding of the ballot from women, prevented the application to society of its most beneficial force. Miss Boswell of New York, talked at the afternoon program on the suffrage movement, taking occasion to criticize the school system in Panama, which she investigated for the government a few years ago. She gave an intensely interesting talk setting forth woman's progress in this country, adapting her talk especially to the industrial conditions in America today, factory labor, short hours for women labor, etc., and argued that through the votes for women movement these conditions would be effectively remedied. Mrs. Sarah Evans then called for the opposition or the "antis" and Dr. Wilson heroically responded to the call, laying especial stress on the old idea that "woman's sphere is the home not the ballot." Miss Giesha Breckenridge followed Dr. Wilson, again taking up the banner of the suffragists. Miss Breckenridge, a dele gate from Kentucky, answered the old argument that women should not vote because they cannot fight, and then responded to the counter-argument that women fight too much, particularly in England and she struck a happy medium for her hearers and the women seemed to agree that the women fought neither too much nor too little Miss Breckenridge told of the suffrage movement in Kentucky and pointed out particularly the improvement in the school system of bar own state, after women were allowed to vote 