THE WOMEN'S LAND ARMY. Difficulties in the way of making  further use of the labor of women on  the farms of the United States, according to reports of investigators,  have not been entirely overcome as  the result of experiments made last  season. It will surprise most persons,  however, to learn that the number of  women engaged in agriculture in the  United States in 1910 is given by the  United States census for that year as  1,807,050, whereas in 1900 the number was recorded as 977,336, showing  an increase in ten years of nearly 85  percent.  The increase in the number of women classified as "agricultural laborers" in the same period was 129 percent from 661,103 in 1900 to 1,514,107 in 1910. It is true that most of  these were employed on their home  farms, but by no means all of them  were so engaged. The number recorded in the census as "working out"  in 1910 is 337,522.  The director of the census in his  analysis of the figures for 1910 made  the significant comment that the detailed percentage increases were "useful mainly to show that the increase  in female farm laborers was general  throughout the United States and was  not confined to the South," and, consequently, it did not involve a question  of race. He admits that there may  have been errors in enumeration, by  which too many children were classified as farm laborers, and he makes  an allowance for probable errors, which  reduces the whole number of women  engaged in "agricultural pursuits" to  1,338,950. Even the smaller number,  however, will be a revelation to those  who have not studied the subject carefully. It shows that nearly one-sixth  of all the women employed in gainful  occupations in the country are actually  at work on farms.  It is commonly supposed that a  much larger proportion of women  have been engaged in farming in Europe than in the United States. However true this may have been as to  the Continent, the figures for 1911  for Great Britain and Ireland give  only 120,000 as the number of women  doing agricultural work. There was  an increase of 44,500 between April,  1914, and April, 1917, and of the  2,000,000 women in England at present under the military law as war  workers, 60,000 are enrolled in the  "land army." The number is still short. In proportion to population, of that in the United States. The problem of women's labor on farms in this country is intimately associated with that of men. It is largely a question of finding competent workers and fitting them to the jobs. Rates of wages enter into it. too. But there is, in the case of women "working out," a special need of suitable housing facilities. This problem was only partly solved last year by the establishment of women's camps on central locations. Conditions of living are more important in the case of women than in that of men. Where a group of men might regard a certain amount of roughing it as a lark, this would not be tolerable where women's labor is employed. Social questions of a more or less pressing nature are also interwoven with the whole. Success of the women's farm labor movement would seem to depend largely upon not attempting too much, and upon thorough organization which will permit the assignment of volunteers to the work in which they are likely to be productive in the best sense. Any wholesale attempt to pitchfork women into all the places formerly held by men, including the heavier forms of labor, would be foredoomed to failure. Yet one venture, started by a committee appointed by the Mayor of New York in 1917, indicated that women who were wisely assigned to tasks within their physical powers were capable of earning satisfactory wages.  But it is also the opinion of students that the widest field for women's agricultural activity lies on the farms where they are members of the family, rather than in any extensive plan of "working out." Women living in farm homes will serve best by educating themselves to obtain greater results in already tried departments. Many now excel in farm management, and the farm garden movement last season owed a large part of its success to the planning, as well as the actual labor, of women. Women's opportunity in the crisis is large, but it does not follow that there must be a return to primitive conditions or that we should revert to a peasant system in which both men and women joined In identical physical labor of the hardest kind.