WOMEN WELDERS VERY EFFICIENT DON'T KID THEM Society of Mechanical Engineers Finds Fair Sex Requires Careful Handling. By Virginia MacPherson United Press Staff Correspondent Los Angeles June 18 (U.P) Women in industry have mastered spot welding machines with the same proficience they once displayed in handling vacuum cleaners but they become flippant when kidded or coddled. This was the consensus among speakers addressing the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on the subject, "Women In War Industry." William A. Simonds, public relations official of the Ford Willow Run bomber plants said his foremen had learned two things from their women employes women are especially suited to detail work and secondly they must not be kidded or coddled by their bosses. Have Patience "In such unexpected field as tinsmith, locksmith, plumbing and cabinetmaking women workers are proving satisfactory," he said. "Jobs requiring patience. sensitive fingers and a delicate touch seem particularly adapted to them. "On fine bench work, such as electrical assemblies, they are even superior to men." But any tendency on the part of supervisor to "baby" feminine recruits has resulted in less efficient work, Simonds said. "Women cannot be kidded or instructed flippantly. If they are, they will carry out their work in the same manner, he said. "A few of our foremen at first tried to baby them and and have been sorry over since. If you coddle them at first they expect to keep on being coddled." Simonds ventured to suggest that women were as intelligent as men at least in industrial activities but indicated that womanlike, they "had to be shown" once instruction got beyond the minto mechanical technique. "In the classroom most women trainees could not grasy the idea until they were taken into the shop and shown the item under discussion. Then they returned to their desks and gave even the old grease monkeys pretty stiff competition. Some Would Stay "As for keeping the new-found job after the war," Simonds said, It was pretty much of a fifty-fifty proposition. "About half consider their jobs temporary and have no intent of of continuing," he explained. "Most of the others, having found a timeclock is something more than a neat device to control heat in a baking oven would like to keep on working. Womanpower is the only solution to the national manpower shortage, in the opinion of J.I. Onarheim, employment supervisor in the industrial relations department of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing company, Milwaukee, Wis. "Only two and a half million women are employed in our industries," he disclosed. That is less than four percent of the feminine population and is not enough." 