PTA Check Finds Married Women Work To Help Support Families CHICAGO, Il., (AP) The reason an increasing number of married women are working is to help support themselves and their families, according to Frieda S. Miller, director of the women's labor bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, in National Parent-Teacher: The P.T.A magazine, publication of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, out here this week. WORKING TOTAL TOLD Writing on "Why Do Women Work?" Miss Miller said almost 27 percent of all married women are now working in outside employment, as compared with 17 percent 12 years ago. In a down-to-earth analysis of the answer to the question, she gave no space to the career urge idea, and asked PTAs to promote community nursery and day-care centers, recreation facilities, laundries, night shopping hours, and other especially needed services for women workers. Miss Miller said 18,750,000 women are now working and that these include the single, married, widowed and divorced. She added that about half of the country's single women are in the labor force. She explained, however, that since all the female population 14 years of age and over are counted among the single women workers, they include thousands of girls still in high school or college, the great majority of whom are preparing for working careers whether they plan to marry or not. "Of those with children between 6 and 18, approximately one out of three was working or seeking work . . . The fact that a woman is married no longer means that she is free of financial responsibility. Married women as well as those who had no husbands reported as their primary reason for working the fact that they had to make a living," the report stated. EARNINGS' USE REPORTED "To many families the wife's earnings mean the difference be tween bare subsistence and more adequate family support. In some cases the additional income enables the family to buy or make improvements on a home, and in others it provides the extra money needed for educating sons and daughters. Miss Miller said the findings and statistics quoted in her article were based on studies by the women's bureau, the National Education Association, and Pi Lambda Theta, women's education honor society. 