Women Must Work Also In times of recession there are always those who come up with a ready answer to the growing unemployment rolls put the women back In the home (where they belong). Men must work they say and women can live off their husbands. That this facile solution is obsolete is shown by the recent rise in men's unemployment while the number of women looking for work has remained about the same as last year. Women today are not working for pin money; nine out of ten of whom are self supporting. according to the women's bureau of the department of labor, and they are just as eager to keep their jobs as the men who don't want to subsist on unemployment compensation checks. Nearly 18,000,000 women are working outside the home today 2,000,000 more than at the beginning of 1947, and the number is increasing. The all-time peak in the number of women workers was in 1944 when 20,000,000, more than a third of all the women in the country. In the labor force. Today about half the working women are married, 35 percent are single, and the rest are divorced or widowed; before the war half the women's labor force was made up of single women. These statistics don't mean that the nation's families are being neglected. The phenomenal birth-rate of the war and post-war years shows that women continue having babies even though they hold down a job on the side. Further, the biggest Increase in the number of working women comes from the ranks of wives and mothers whose child-rearing years are over: About the same number of women under 33 are working today as in 1940 whereas there are 1,000,000 more women in the labor force between 35 and 45 and almost 2,000,000 more who are over 45. There have been changes, too, in the kinds of jobs women hold down. In 1940, 13.2 percent of all working women were in the professional and semi-professional category, 17.7 percent were in domestic service. The high pay, novelty and patriotic aura of war work drew millions of women Into Industrial jobs. Rosie the Riveter in the shipyard or plane factory was often an ex-teacher or former housemaid, and when the war ended she was reluctant to return to the wages and restricted living of the schoolmarm or the low wages and social stigma of the servant. If she could, she joined the clerical, operative or service (not domestic) force. So, today only 9.2 percent of working women are in the professional class and only 8.5 percent are domestics. More than half the nation's office workers are women, more than half the service workers are women, and almost half the professional and semi-professional workers are women, too. These ladies will be hard to dislodge, no matter how unemployment among male industrial workers increases. They will argue, and with experience, ability, training and necessity are experience, ability, training and necessary are the fair determiners of who should work. 