By NAN HENDERSON Of the Emerald SALEM (Special) — The Oregon State Senate Thursday voted to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Twenty-three senators voted in favor of SJR 4, which called for ratification, and six senators voted against the resolution. The vote followed about an hour of debate on the senate floor which centered around the changes the amendment might force in military conscription and in family support laws. Sen. John Burns (D.-Portland), who carried the measure on the floor, called the question of ratification “a non-issue.” He said he could not understand “why so many people are concerned about the legislation.” Burns, an attorney, said he did not believe the amendment would “radically change” existing support laws which, in most cases, legally obligate a husband to support his family. He also said the amendment would not “abdicate from Congress or the state the power to establish “relevant criteria” in respect to what kinds of military duties women could perform if the draft were reenacted. He concluded by calling the amendment “a measure whose time has come.” In the following debate, Sen. Tom Hartung (R.-Portland) the most articulate of the opponents of the amendment, said legislators should “change statutes of this state rather than amending the Constitution,”—an argument against the amendment made by many of the opponents who testified in committee hearings. Hartung stressed that he was not opposed to equal opportunity for women who chose a professional career, but said, “The highest quality of a woman is in being a housewife, homemaker and mother of children.” He said he is concerned that many of the “protection” laws for women laborers would have to be abolished or extended to men if the ERA is ratified. Hartung said he thought women should be protected by such laws, but that extending them to men “would disrupt the economy. “The ERA, like that noble experiment of prohibition, may in the long run do more harm than good,” Hartung concluded. Sen. Ed Fadeley (D.-Eugene), an attorney, elaborated on the effect the ERA would have on family support laws. He said current support laws “are not based on a legal theory of inequality”, but rather on which spouse is more able to support the family. “I have, representing a man, obtained a court order that a woman must pay a man’s support when he has custody of the children,” Fadeley said. He said the amendment would do more to change attitudes than to change laws. “This country, not men and women, will be liberated then,” Fadeley said. Sen. Betty Roberts (D.-Portland) rose in support of the amendment, though she said she had not intended to speak on the issue. She said, however, she felt a need to clear up some misunderstanding about the amendment. Roberts, an attorney, pointed out that Congress presently has the power to draft women if it decides to exercise that power. She said she was certain women would serve in the military if this country “should ever become involved in a war that required we defend the country.” At that time, she continued, Congress would determine if women have the physical capabilities to serve in combat. “But I question whether some of our young men have those capabilities,” Roberts said. She said she believed she was more capable of going to war than her son. “I would have gladly taken the place of my young son, who was drafted and sent to Vietnam in 1967,” Roberts said. She called upon legislators to “leave behind armchair ideas about what women and men can and cannot do.” Besides Hartung, Sen. George Eivers (R.-Portland), Sen. Thomas Mahoney (D.-Portland), Sen. Tony Meeker (R.-Amity), Sen. Lynn Newbry (R.-Talent) and Sen. E.D. “Debs” Potts (D.-Grants Pass) voted against ratification. SJR 4 will now go to the House, where two identical resolutions calling for ratification have been introduced but have not yet been sent to the floor by the House State and Federal Affairs Committee. Twenty-three states have ratified the ERA to date and five have rejected the amendment. Thirty-eight states must vote for ratification before the ERA will become the 27th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 