WOMAN POWER Labor problem, are so acute in Berlin that women laborers are seen in various parts of the city. Here a gang of German women hauls a salvage cart through the street.Women Must Work Also In times of recession there are always those who come up with a ready answer to the growing unemployment rolls put the women back In the home (where they belong). Men must work they say and women can live off their husbands. That this facile solution is obsolete is shown by the recent rise in men's unemployment while the number of women looking for work has remained about the same as last year. Women today are not working for pin money; nine out of ten of whom are self supporting. according to the women's bureau of the department of labor, and they are just as eager to keep their jobs as the men who don't want to subsist on unemployment compensation checks. Nearly 18,000,000 women are working outside the home today 2,000,000 more than at the beginning of 1947, and the number is increasing. The all-time peak in the number of women workers was in 1944 when 20,000,000, more than a third of all the women in the country. In the labor force. Today about half the working women are married, 35 percent are single, and the rest are divorced or widowed; before the war half the women's labor force was made up of single women. These statistics don't mean that the nation's families are being neglected. The phenomenal birth-rate of the war and post-war years shows that women continue having babies even though they hold down a job on the side. Further, the biggest Increase in the number of working women comes from the ranks of wives and mothers whose child-rearing years are over: About the same number of women under 33 are working today as in 1940 whereas there are 1,000,000 more women in the labor force between 35 and 45 and almost 2,000,000 more who are over 45. There have been changes, too, in the kinds of jobs women hold down. In 1940, 13.2 percent of all working women were in the professional and semi-professional category, 17.7 percent were in domestic service. The high pay, novelty and patriotic aura of war work drew millions of women Into Industrial jobs. Rosie the Riveter in the shipyard or plane factory was often an ex-teacher or former housemaid, and when the war ended she was reluctant to return to the wages and restricted living of the schoolmarm or the low wages and social stigma of the servant. If she could, she joined the clerical, operative or service (not domestic) force. So, today only 9.2 percent of working women are in the professional class and only 8.5 percent are domestics. More than half the nation's office workers are women, more than half the service workers are women, and almost half the professional and semi-professional workers are women, too. These ladies will be hard to dislodge, no matter how unemployment among male industrial workers increases. They will argue, and with experience, ability, training and necessity are experience, ability, training and necessary are the fair determiners of who should work. Working Wives Mothers, Give Help to Nation Washington Working wives and mothers will be successful both in the home and in the office if the community and the nation gives them a helping hand.  That's the opinion of Dr. Anne Gary Pannell, who practices what she preaches. At 40, she is mother of two young sons as well as newly-appointed president of Sweet Briar college in Virginia; She contends that "woman-power is the last great source of labor," but cautions that it must be mobilized effectively." That means, in part, that the community and nation should, set up additional nurseries, shopping, cleaning and sewing facilities to help the working housewife. Assistance Urged  "I don't believe that women are weaker as mothers because they hold jobs," Dr. Pannell told Sweet Briar alumnae. "I do feel the community should help these working women by co-operatively tackling her household chores." Such community assistance also will be a boon to the working wife and mother in event of war when, she pointed out, "there will be more divided homes and absent fathers."  To get the best results from the women labor force in case of war, Dr. Pannell contended, don't draft women haphazardly or tuck them away in any vacant job.  "Women themselves are best fitted to map out the individual jobs they do," she said, "There should be screening of women to determine vocational aptitudes." Decision Theirs She suggested also that in time of crisis, it should be the women who should make the decisions about the rights and welfare of children. College, she said, is essential in preparing women for her many roles in life. "Girls should first of all have a set of values to go by, and be trained to think for themselves," she said. "That is, more important than specific vocational training. "Women have to be far more adaptable than men, since they will not only be wives and mothers, but also may be called upon to serve as breadwinners."  PTA Check Finds Married Women Work To Help Support Families CHICAGO, Il., (AP) The reason an increasing number of married women are working is to help support themselves and their families, according to Frieda S. Miller, director of the women's labor bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, in National Parent-Teacher: The P.T.A magazine, publication of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, out here this week. WORKING TOTAL TOLD Writing on "Why Do Women Work?" Miss Miller said almost 27 percent of all married women are now working in outside employment, as compared with 17 percent 12 years ago. In a down-to-earth analysis of the answer to the question, she gave no space to the career urge idea, and asked PTAs to promote community nursery and day-care centers, recreation facilities, laundries, night shopping hours, and other especially needed services for women workers. Miss Miller said 18,750,000 women are now working and that these include the single, married, widowed and divorced. She added that about half of the country's single women are in the labor force. She explained, however, that since all the female population 14 years of age and over are counted among the single women workers, they include thousands of girls still in high school or college, the great majority of whom are preparing for working careers whether they plan to marry or not. "Of those with children between 6 and 18, approximately one out of three was working or seeking work . . . The fact that a woman is married no longer means that she is free of financial responsibility. Married women as well as those who had no husbands reported as their primary reason for working the fact that they had to make a living," the report stated. EARNINGS' USE REPORTED "To many families the wife's earnings mean the difference be tween bare subsistence and more adequate family support. In some cases the additional income enables the family to buy or make improvements on a home, and in others it provides the extra money needed for educating sons and daughters. Miss Miller said the findings and statistics quoted in her article were based on studies by the women's bureau, the National Education Association, and Pi Lambda Theta, women's education honor society. Social Security Importance Grows For Women; Labor Ranks Increasing "Old-age and survivors insurance is of increasing importance to the working women of the nation because more women of mature­ age are entering the labor ranks.” Ev. Cummins, field representative of the Portland social security office, said this week. "While the number of single, widowed and divorced women workers has changed but little in recent years, there has been a  marked increase in the number  of married women workers. “This  number has grown from 7.5 million in 1947 to near 10.5 million in April 1952,” Cummins said. He pointed out the tendency during the past decade for wo­men to return to work or to take jobs for the first time after reaching middle age. This trend contrasts with the pre-war period when it was largely young wives in their twenties and early thir­ties who went into outside em­ployment. Today, the greatest proportion of working wives are in their early forties; even married women in their early fifties are entering the labor force in about the same proportions as younger women, an April 1952 survey reveals. "A women now age 50 will be fully insured for old-age insur­ance payments at age 65 after about 7.5 years of covered work,” Cummins said. An amount of covered work equal to at least one-half the time after 1950 and age 65 or death is required to be fully insured. Cummins said that around 5.3 million women workers have children under 18; over two mil­lion of these women have youngsters below school age for whose care the mothers must provide during the hours they spend at work outside the house. As sur­vivors benefits are payable to children if the supporting parent had at least a year and a half of covered work during the three years ending with death, mothers now engaged in covered work are building this social security insurance protection. Those who wish to file claims or obtain social security informa­tion may meet the representative during one of his regular weekly Columbia county visits. Mr. Cum­mins may be contacted on the second floor of the St. Helens Courthouse any Monday 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. or local residents may wish to visit or write to the Port­land office located in Room 104, Old Post Office Building, Port­land, Oregon. WASHINGTON The U S Information Agency on "equality for women in the Soviet Union: "True to their principal of 'equality', women labor and steel mills, lumber camps and mines, and on railroads. They work hod carriers on construction job, as street cleaners, loggers, stokers, machinists, truck drivers, carpenters and so forth. Hopyard Noisy Place Now the yard has begun to wake up. Already the wire-man has let down several wires. Other workers have arrived and several have begun to pick. The men are in khaki trousers and overalls; the majority of the women are dressed likewise. But there are are certain characteristics that mark woman hop picker from all other women laborers. There are the black cotton stockings, with the feet cut off that protect the arms and wrists, the canvas gloves with their leather patches to protect the hands; the large red or blue handkerchief to prevent the throat from becoming scratched. A large, light straw hat, made to fit the head by means of a shoestring drawn through the base of the crown, covers the head. A safety pin, worn in the manner of a fraternity pin, to hold the hop checks, completes the costume. Over the front of the men's and women's clothing alike are dirty brown stains.WOMEN: Labor Secretary W. Willard Wirtz urged the Senate to end job discriminations against American women who make up one-third of the total labor force.
By NAN HENDERSON Of the Emerald SALEM (Special) — The Oregon State Senate Thursday voted to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Twenty-three senators voted in favor of SJR 4, which called for ratification, and six senators voted against the resolution. The vote followed about an hour of debate on the senate floor which centered around the changes the amendment might force in military conscription and in family support laws. Sen. John Burns (D.-Portland), who carried the measure on the floor, called the question of ratification “a non-issue.” He said he could not understand “why so many people are concerned about the legislation.” Burns, an attorney, said he did not believe the amendment would “radically change” existing support laws which, in most cases, legally obligate a husband to support his family. He also said the amendment would not “abdicate from Congress or the state the power to establish “relevant criteria” in respect to what kinds of military duties women could perform if the draft were reenacted. He concluded by calling the amendment “a measure whose time has come.” In the following debate, Sen. Tom Hartung (R.-Portland) the most articulate of the opponents of the amendment, said legislators should “change statutes of this state rather than amending the Constitution,”—an argument against the amendment made by many of the opponents who testified in committee hearings. Hartung stressed that he was not opposed to equal opportunity for women who chose a professional career, but said, “The highest quality of a woman is in being a housewife, homemaker and mother of children.” He said he is concerned that many of the “protection” laws for women laborers would have to be abolished or extended to men if the ERA is ratified. Hartung said he thought women should be protected by such laws, but that extending them to men “would disrupt the economy. “The ERA, like that noble experiment of prohibition, may in the long run do more harm than good,” Hartung concluded. Sen. Ed Fadeley (D.-Eugene), an attorney, elaborated on the effect the ERA would have on family support laws. He said current support laws “are not based on a legal theory of inequality”, but rather on which spouse is more able to support the family. “I have, representing a man, obtained a court order that a woman must pay a man’s support when he has custody of the children,” Fadeley said. He said the amendment would do more to change attitudes than to change laws. “This country, not men and women, will be liberated then,” Fadeley said. Sen. Betty Roberts (D.-Portland) rose in support of the amendment, though she said she had not intended to speak on the issue. She said, however, she felt a need to clear up some misunderstanding about the amendment. Roberts, an attorney, pointed out that Congress presently has the power to draft women if it decides to exercise that power. She said she was certain women would serve in the military if this country “should ever become involved in a war that required we defend the country.” At that time, she continued, Congress would determine if women have the physical capabilities to serve in combat. “But I question whether some of our young men have those capabilities,” Roberts said. She said she believed she was more capable of going to war than her son. “I would have gladly taken the place of my young son, who was drafted and sent to Vietnam in 1967,” Roberts said. She called upon legislators to “leave behind armchair ideas about what women and men can and cannot do.” Besides Hartung, Sen. George Eivers (R.-Portland), Sen. Thomas Mahoney (D.-Portland), Sen. Tony Meeker (R.-Amity), Sen. Lynn Newbry (R.-Talent) and Sen. E.D. “Debs” Potts (D.-Grants Pass) voted against ratification. SJR 4 will now go to the House, where two identical resolutions calling for ratification have been introduced but have not yet been sent to the floor by the House State and Federal Affairs Committee. Twenty-three states have ratified the ERA to date and five have rejected the amendment. Thirty-eight states must vote for ratification before the ERA will become the 27th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Dwyer is focusing on pension reform and the backlog in civil rights cases as major issues in his campaign.  He asserts that employes are often cheated on pension plans, and that people are often "locked into their jobs" because of pension plans. Noting that there is almost always a long wait for civil rights plaintiffs, Dwyer said he would expand this department to give complaints prompt attention. Dwyer also said apprenticeship programs should be more receptive towards women and that he would work actively in behalf of women's labor rights. ‘But not fast enough’ Women, labor are changing "Women have been a vital part of the labor movement." Today things have changed, “but not to the degree some of us would like.” The speaker was Nellie Fox recently elected Womens' Activities Director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). She has been involved in labor union activities for the past 20 years and has been termed one of the most effective lobbyists in Salem. Her Wednesday speech in the EMU was entitled, "Women in the Work Force." The AFSCME is a Public Employee Union, affiliated with the AFL-CIO. It specializes in representing state and local government employees, and employees of non-profit organizations. "Most people are ignorant of what labor unions are all about,” Fox said. One of the most important functions of a labor union, she pointed out, is to provide a procedure for handling grievances and questionable terminations. She also said that the majority  of labor problems stem from the inability of labor representatives and management representatives to come to an agreement, or from one side not living up to an agreement made. Women in the labor movement in the past have been silent, she said, recalling the plight of women workers of the past who withstood long hours and unsanitary conditions while working in industry. Fox said that some women of today are "until workers” — working until the refrigerator is paid for, until the kids are out of school. But it doesn’t always work out that way. “The women’s liberation movement is teaching women to think for themselves,” Fox said. She thinks this is bringing about a change in organized labor. WOMAN POWER Labor problem, are so acute in Berlin that women laborers are seen in various parts of the city. Here a gang of German women hauls a salvage cart through the street.Women Must Work Also In times of recession there are always those who come up with a ready answer to the growing unemployment rolls put the women back In the home (where they belong). Men must work they say and women can live off their husbands. That this facile solution is obsolete is shown by the recent rise in men's unemployment while the number of women looking for work has remained about the same as last year. Women today are not working for pin money; nine out of ten of whom are self supporting. according to the women's bureau of the department of labor, and they are just as eager to keep their jobs as the men who don't want to subsist on unemployment compensation checks. Nearly 18,000,000 women are working outside the home today 2,000,000 more than at the beginning of 1947, and the number is increasing. The all-time peak in the number of women workers was in 1944 when 20,000,000, more than a third of all the women in the country. In the labor force. Today about half the working women are married, 35 percent are single, and the rest are divorced or widowed; before the war half the women's labor force was made up of single women. These statistics don't mean that the nation's families are being neglected. The phenomenal birth-rate of the war and post-war years shows that women continue having babies even though they hold down a job on the side. Further, the biggest Increase in the number of working women comes from the ranks of wives and mothers whose child-rearing years are over: About the same number of women under 33 are working today as in 1940 whereas there are 1,000,000 more women in the labor force between 35 and 45 and almost 2,000,000 more who are over 45. There have been changes, too, in the kinds of jobs women hold down. In 1940, 13.2 percent of all working women were in the professional and semi-professional category, 17.7 percent were in domestic service. The high pay, novelty and patriotic aura of war work drew millions of women Into Industrial jobs. Rosie the Riveter in the shipyard or plane factory was often an ex-teacher or former housemaid, and when the war ended she was reluctant to return to the wages and restricted living of the schoolmarm or the low wages and social stigma of the servant. If she could, she joined the clerical, operative or service (not domestic) force. So, today only 9.2 percent of working women are in the professional class and only 8.5 percent are domestics. More than half the nation's office workers are women, more than half the service workers are women, and almost half the professional and semi-professional workers are women, too. These ladies will be hard to dislodge, no matter how unemployment among male industrial workers increases. They will argue, and with experience, ability, training and necessity are experience, ability, training and necessary are the fair determiners of who should work. Working Wives Mothers, Give Help to Nation Washington Working wives and mothers will be successful both in the home and in the office if the community and the nation gives them a helping hand.  That's the opinion of Dr. Anne Gary Pannell, who practices what she preaches. At 40, she is mother of two young sons as well as newly-appointed president of Sweet Briar college in Virginia; She contends that "woman-power is the last great source of labor," but cautions that it must be mobilized effectively." That means, in part, that the community and nation should, set up additional nurseries, shopping, cleaning and sewing facilities to help the working housewife. Assistance Urged  "I don't believe that women are weaker as mothers because they hold jobs," Dr. Pannell told Sweet Briar alumnae. "I do feel the community should help these working women by co-operatively tackling her household chores." Such community assistance also will be a boon to the working wife and mother in event of war when, she pointed out, "there will be more divided homes and absent fathers."  To get the best results from the women labor force in case of war, Dr. Pannell contended, don't draft women haphazardly or tuck them away in any vacant job.  "Women themselves are best fitted to map out the individual jobs they do," she said, "There should be screening of women to determine vocational aptitudes." Decision Theirs She suggested also that in time of crisis, it should be the women who should make the decisions about the rights and welfare of children. College, she said, is essential in preparing women for her many roles in life. "Girls should first of all have a set of values to go by, and be trained to think for themselves," she said. "That is, more important than specific vocational training. "Women have to be far more adaptable than men, since they will not only be wives and mothers, but also may be called upon to serve as breadwinners."  PTA Check Finds Married Women Work To Help Support Families CHICAGO, Il., (AP) The reason an increasing number of married women are working is to help support themselves and their families, according to Frieda S. Miller, director of the women's labor bureau, U.S. Department of Labor, in National Parent-Teacher: The P.T.A magazine, publication of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, out here this week. WORKING TOTAL TOLD Writing on "Why Do Women Work?" Miss Miller said almost 27 percent of all married women are now working in outside employment, as compared with 17 percent 12 years ago. In a down-to-earth analysis of the answer to the question, she gave no space to the career urge idea, and asked PTAs to promote community nursery and day-care centers, recreation facilities, laundries, night shopping hours, and other especially needed services for women workers. Miss Miller said 18,750,000 women are now working and that these include the single, married, widowed and divorced. She added that about half of the country's single women are in the labor force. She explained, however, that since all the female population 14 years of age and over are counted among the single women workers, they include thousands of girls still in high school or college, the great majority of whom are preparing for working careers whether they plan to marry or not. "Of those with children between 6 and 18, approximately one out of three was working or seeking work . . . The fact that a woman is married no longer means that she is free of financial responsibility. Married women as well as those who had no husbands reported as their primary reason for working the fact that they had to make a living," the report stated. EARNINGS' USE REPORTED "To many families the wife's earnings mean the difference be tween bare subsistence and more adequate family support. In some cases the additional income enables the family to buy or make improvements on a home, and in others it provides the extra money needed for educating sons and daughters. Miss Miller said the findings and statistics quoted in her article were based on studies by the women's bureau, the National Education Association, and Pi Lambda Theta, women's education honor society. Social Security Importance Grows For Women; Labor Ranks Increasing "Old-age and survivors insurance is of increasing importance to the working women of the nation because more women of mature­ age are entering the labor ranks.” Ev. Cummins, field representative of the Portland social security office, said this week. "While the number of single, widowed and divorced women workers has changed but little in recent years, there has been a  marked increase in the number  of married women workers. “This  number has grown from 7.5 million in 1947 to near 10.5 million in April 1952,” Cummins said. He pointed out the tendency during the past decade for wo­men to return to work or to take jobs for the first time after reaching middle age. This trend contrasts with the pre-war period when it was largely young wives in their twenties and early thir­ties who went into outside em­ployment. Today, the greatest proportion of working wives are in their early forties; even married women in their early fifties are entering the labor force in about the same proportions as younger women, an April 1952 survey reveals. "A women now age 50 will be fully insured for old-age insur­ance payments at age 65 after about 7.5 years of covered work,” Cummins said. An amount of covered work equal to at least one-half the time after 1950 and age 65 or death is required to be fully insured. Cummins said that around 5.3 million women workers have children under 18; over two mil­lion of these women have youngsters below school age for whose care the mothers must provide during the hours they spend at work outside the house. As sur­vivors benefits are payable to children if the supporting parent had at least a year and a half of covered work during the three years ending with death, mothers now engaged in covered work are building this social security insurance protection. Those who wish to file claims or obtain social security informa­tion may meet the representative during one of his regular weekly Columbia county visits. Mr. Cum­mins may be contacted on the second floor of the St. Helens Courthouse any Monday 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. or local residents may wish to visit or write to the Port­land office located in Room 104, Old Post Office Building, Port­land, Oregon. WASHINGTON The U S Information Agency on "equality for women in the Soviet Union: "True to their principal of 'equality', women labor and steel mills, lumber camps and mines, and on railroads. They work hod carriers on construction job, as street cleaners, loggers, stokers, machinists, truck drivers, carpenters and so forth. Hopyard Noisy Place Now the yard has begun to wake up. Already the wire-man has let down several wires. Other workers have arrived and several have begun to pick. The men are in khaki trousers and overalls; the majority of the women are dressed likewise. But there are are certain characteristics that mark woman hop picker from all other women laborers. There are the black cotton stockings, with the feet cut off that protect the arms and wrists, the canvas gloves with their leather patches to protect the hands; the large red or blue handkerchief to prevent the throat from becoming scratched. A large, light straw hat, made to fit the head by means of a shoestring drawn through the base of the crown, covers the head. A safety pin, worn in the manner of a fraternity pin, to hold the hop checks, completes the costume. Over the front of the men's and women's clothing alike are dirty brown stains.WOMEN: Labor Secretary W. Willard Wirtz urged the Senate to end job discriminations against American women who make up one-third of the total labor force.
By NAN HENDERSON Of the Emerald SALEM (Special) — The Oregon State Senate Thursday voted to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Twenty-three senators voted in favor of SJR 4, which called for ratification, and six senators voted against the resolution. The vote followed about an hour of debate on the senate floor which centered around the changes the amendment might force in military conscription and in family support laws. Sen. John Burns (D.-Portland), who carried the measure on the floor, called the question of ratification “a non-issue.” He said he could not understand “why so many people are concerned about the legislation.” Burns, an attorney, said he did not believe the amendment would “radically change” existing support laws which, in most cases, legally obligate a husband to support his family. He also said the amendment would not “abdicate from Congress or the state the power to establish “relevant criteria” in respect to what kinds of military duties women could perform if the draft were reenacted. He concluded by calling the amendment “a measure whose time has come.” In the following debate, Sen. Tom Hartung (R.-Portland) the most articulate of the opponents of the amendment, said legislators should “change statutes of this state rather than amending the Constitution,”—an argument against the amendment made by many of the opponents who testified in committee hearings. Hartung stressed that he was not opposed to equal opportunity for women who chose a professional career, but said, “The highest quality of a woman is in being a housewife, homemaker and mother of children.” He said he is concerned that many of the “protection” laws for women laborers would have to be abolished or extended to men if the ERA is ratified. Hartung said he thought women should be protected by such laws, but that extending them to men “would disrupt the economy. “The ERA, like that noble experiment of prohibition, may in the long run do more harm than good,” Hartung concluded. Sen. Ed Fadeley (D.-Eugene), an attorney, elaborated on the effect the ERA would have on family support laws. He said current support laws “are not based on a legal theory of inequality”, but rather on which spouse is more able to support the family. “I have, representing a man, obtained a court order that a woman must pay a man’s support when he has custody of the children,” Fadeley said. He said the amendment would do more to change attitudes than to change laws. “This country, not men and women, will be liberated then,” Fadeley said. Sen. Betty Roberts (D.-Portland) rose in support of the amendment, though she said she had not intended to speak on the issue. She said, however, she felt a need to clear up some misunderstanding about the amendment. Roberts, an attorney, pointed out that Congress presently has the power to draft women if it decides to exercise that power. She said she was certain women would serve in the military if this country “should ever become involved in a war that required we defend the country.” At that time, she continued, Congress would determine if women have the physical capabilities to serve in combat. “But I question whether some of our young men have those capabilities,” Roberts said. She said she believed she was more capable of going to war than her son. “I would have gladly taken the place of my young son, who was drafted and sent to Vietnam in 1967,” Roberts said. She called upon legislators to “leave behind armchair ideas about what women and men can and cannot do.” Besides Hartung, Sen. George Eivers (R.-Portland), Sen. Thomas Mahoney (D.-Portland), Sen. Tony Meeker (R.-Amity), Sen. Lynn Newbry (R.-Talent) and Sen. E.D. “Debs” Potts (D.-Grants Pass) voted against ratification. SJR 4 will now go to the House, where two identical resolutions calling for ratification have been introduced but have not yet been sent to the floor by the House State and Federal Affairs Committee. Twenty-three states have ratified the ERA to date and five have rejected the amendment. Thirty-eight states must vote for ratification before the ERA will become the 27th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Dwyer is focusing on pension reform and the backlog in civil rights cases as major issues in his campaign.  He asserts that employes are often cheated on pension plans, and that people are often "locked into their jobs" because of pension plans. Noting that there is almost always a long wait for civil rights plaintiffs, Dwyer said he would expand this department to give complaints prompt attention. Dwyer also said apprenticeship programs should be more receptive towards women and that he would work actively in behalf of women's labor rights. ‘But not fast enough’ Women, labor are changing "Women have been a vital part of the labor movement." Today things have changed, “but not to the degree some of us would like.” The speaker was Nellie Fox recently elected Womens' Activities Director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). She has been involved in labor union activities for the past 20 years and has been termed one of the most effective lobbyists in Salem. Her Wednesday speech in the EMU was entitled, "Women in the Work Force." The AFSCME is a Public Employee Union, affiliated with the AFL-CIO. It specializes in representing state and local government employees, and employees of non-profit organizations. "Most people are ignorant of what labor unions are all about,” Fox said. One of the most important functions of a labor union, she pointed out, is to provide a procedure for handling grievances and questionable terminations. She also said that the majority  of labor problems stem from the inability of labor representatives and management representatives to come to an agreement, or from one side not living up to an agreement made. Women in the labor movement in the past have been silent, she said, recalling the plight of women workers of the past who withstood long hours and unsanitary conditions while working in industry. Fox said that some women of today are "until workers” — working until the refrigerator is paid for, until the kids are out of school. But it doesn’t always work out that way. “The women’s liberation movement is teaching women to think for themselves,” Fox said. She thinks this is bringing about a change in organized labor. WOMAN POWER Labor problem, are so acute in Berlin that women laborers are seen in various parts of the city. Here a gang of German women hauls a salvage cart through the street.Women Must Work Also In times of recession there are always those who come up with a ready answer to the growing unemployment rolls put the women back In the home (where they belong). Men must work they say and women can live off their husbands. That this facile solution is obsolete is shown by the recent rise in men's 
