WHY WOMEN'S LABOR IS CHEAP. If we ask why women's labor should be cheap, the answer seems to be partly because her strength is generally less than a man's, but also, and much more, because she does not train sufficiently to become a skilled worker and because she does not organize strongly enough to ask for better pay. The Industrial revolution 150 years ago found women working perhaps quite as hard or harder than they work now. But they were working they spun, wove, etc. usually as members of a family. The family was the industrial unit. The growth of capital and the introduction of machinery drew women out of their homes to work in association in the factory. Association gave men the opportunity of combining together and taught them that union might be strength. But for various reasons women have been much longer in learning that lesson, and, though trade unionism has recently made progress among women, the proportion of women workers who belong to unions is as yet inconsiderable. What is the cause of the comparative lack of skill and proficiency of women in industrial work and of their comparative apathy in organizing to improve their position? Men mostly attain their fullest skill and power in those years when women mostly withdraw from work. The most numerous class of women, the most typical woman in this country, is the girl who at fourteen or fifteen, perhaps earlier, goes out as a servant or works in a factory, mill or workshop for seven or eight years and looks forward to marriage as the natural termination of her industrial career. Even in Lancashire, where the employment of married women is more general than elsewhere, the census shows that the percentage of women occupied is so strongly influenced by marriage that it drops from 76 percent at the age group 15-20 to only 38 per cent at the age of 25-35. The proportion of married or widowed women occupied in Lancashire from twenty-five to thirty-five years old is only 18 per cent. It is frequently observed by those who have made a study of women's trades that the prospect of marriage makes girls slack about training and indifferent about reorganization. Here we come upon the center anomaly of the woman's position in the industry. The normal woman looks forward to marriage, and gives, or hopes to give, her best years to the family. Hence her lack of stability as an industrial worker and her weak position as a bargainer in the labor market London Times. 