The Illinois Vice Investigation. Eugene Daily Guard: The so called "white slave" investigation being conducted by the senate of the state of Illinois is striving to find out whether the immorality that prevails among the women workers in the big industrial centers is caused by inclination or conditions. Recently there testified before the commission two witnesses from two separate industrial and financial conditions in life, and their testimony was in sharp contrast. One was the millionaire head of one of the world's greatest mail order houses, and the other was a young girl stenographer. The millionaire employer stated emphatically that labor and wage conditions have no bearing on the degree of immorality that exists among women workers. It was his contention that the inclination of the individual kept her above contamination irrespective of whether her body was half starved or illy protected from the inclemencies of the weather. The stenographer testified that it was her experience and belief that the financial condition determined In a great many cases the moral rectitude of a large percentage of working women. The employer testified that a girl away from home could live on eight dollars a week, but in response to a question of one of the commission he stated that he did not know positively that it could be done because he had never tried it personally. This investigation, conducted by the city of Chicago, which, with the exception of New York, employs more women in its stores and commercial houses than any city in America, should arrive at some concrete, definite conclusion, which will be the starting point for a movement that will throw a protection around those young women who are forced to work for their maintenance.  It has long been contended that the great immorality that exists among women employes in the big department stores was not a moral question, but an economic one. That the condition of immorality is recognized as existing is apparent from the testimony of one who employs great numbers of women. He stated that he had never heard of a woman employe being blacklisted for immorality, but he had heard of the blacklist being used on Immoral men. This condition would seem to indicate that these large employers have winked at immorality among the women, while insisting upon clean, upright, moral habits for their men employes, and this is the contention of students of economics on this vice question. It is claimed that large employers of women labor have deliberately closed their eyes to the immorality for gain among their female employes, because It kept their own payroll smaller. Past investigations have proven that in times of financial duress, when factories arc closed and general depression exists in all lines, that the number of prostitutes increase tremendously. This would support the contention of many noble men and women who are striving to alleviate the condition of working girls, that more wages for the employes and smaller dividends to the employer would mean much less immorality among working women. Let us hope that the present investigation will give either the other states or the federal government a basis for a minimum wage bill for women which will eliminate the necessity of any Woman entering into an immoral life through sheer want.