ENGLISH WORKING WOMEN USE MORE SANE METHODS Labor Conference Just Closed In London, Representing 55 Branches, Maps 0ut Sensible Reform Program. (By the International News Service.) London, Feb. 15. While nobody has much sympathy with the militant suffragette, nearly all belonging to the so called better classes of society, who have renewed their insane tactics and are trying to prove their political maturity by breaking windows and destroying letters deposited in street boxes, there is another class of women, not quite as prominent socially perhaps, who are demanding the vote in an entirely different manner, which cannot but win the respect of every thinking person. A woman's labor conference was held in London not very long ago. The pap pers did not say very much about it, nothing sensational happened, but still it is worthy of notice that In the midst of all the upheaval and disturbances created by the fate' of the franchise bill, representatives of 55 branches of the Women's Labor league assembled quietly in London and adopted a program for Which they will fight In an orderly and sensible way. Seventy-eight women delegates were present at the meetings. Their opinions differed on many less essential points, but in spite of this the meetings went on in such a quiet manner that a chairman was hardly necessary. These women demanded social reforms, very sweeping many of them, but they limited themselves to questions of vital Interest to women and proved clearly that full Justice can be done to women by male legislators, no matter how willing these are to be Just. Nearly half of the topics discussed at the conference related to children and motherhood, school clinics and meals, but a demand was also made for sex equality In relation to the marriage and divorce laws, and stricter measures against the white slave traffic. If our better educated suffragettes would follow the example of these representatives of laboring women, their prospects of victory would be far better than they are at present. 