GERMANY DEPENDENT  ON WOMEN LABORERS Rotterdam, Netherlands, Sept. 26. (Correspondence of the Associated Preset--The German empire, to some extent, has become dependent upon women's labor, declares a German correspondent of the Nieuwe Rotterdam Courant. In the hospitals, at railroad stations, in shops and in offices, even in the most responsible positions, the work is principally done by women. In even first class restaurants girls and women have replaced the waiters. The traveller who enters a hotel encounters a porter in long skirts, who carries out his behests as quickly as before. Street traffic is largely in the hands of the women. Women conductors, drivers and inspectors are dressed in the uniform of their male colleagues but with skirt or bloomers. Passengers meet with better treatment than was the case with the male staff. On the railroads are women serving in booking offices, as guards on the trains, or porters. Letters and telegrams are delivered by women and girls. Most of the few automobiles are driven by women. But the main work of women is in the factories. The skilled work has now more and more passed into their hands, as well as the carrying of heavy loads. At the turning bench at the furnaces, everywhere they are met with. Their wages at 7 or 8 marks a day are equal to men's earning for like labor. They work in blue smock frock and bloomers with a sort of sailor's cap or cloth on their heads, with black hands and rolled-up sleeves; and in the meal hour they are more and more to be seen in the street, even with bare legs, for stockings are a superfluity in factories, at the furnaces and such like occupations.  The results of women's work In the mining industry are termed very satisfactory. The sorting of sweepings, old iron and brass, the unloading of freight cars, is performed by woman's hands and arms, and a newcomer is amazed at the way in  which she clambers about and lifts and shoulders loads. In agriculture women have always supplied auxiliary labor, but now also do the heavy  work like mowing, plowing and  threshing.  Dress has naturally been brought into accord with the new work. On the railroads, and partly on the street cars, skirts have been replaced by bloomers and gaiters and beribboned and feathered hat or cap  or head-cloth. But there is a sailer  collar for the uniform jacket, and a  flower in the button hole: the jacket  is open at the neck, a watch chain  is fastened on the breast, a bit of  lace adorns the sleeves. 