Eight Million Shots for the Kaiser (Copyright, 1918, by Frank G. Carpenter.) I have been especially interested in the work of the women. They labor away side by side with the men, and still there is but little conversation or gossiping going on. The output fixes the pay and so both time and work are money. Some of the girls are making from $25 to $35 a week, and some of them are making more than men at the same job. They like the work, and the households of Hartford are having a famine in women's labor on account of the domestic servants leaving and going into the munitions factories. One of the highest officials of this pistol-making plant recently had a warning from one of his house maids that she was going to leave. He asked her what was the matter. She replied she was going to work in Colt's factory, where they would give her more wages. He said. "They won't give you a job; and if they do I'll fire you." But he thereupon raised her wages so that they were equal to those of the girls in the pistol plant, and I am told she is still on the job. The officials say that the women are steadier than the men and that they lose less time. They are in such demand that in certain of the firearms factories of this region any woman may come in and work for a certain number of hours per day at piece-work. All that is required is that she must tell just when she will come and that she be there regularly for the time fixed. Some women work from 10 to 12 in the morning, and many school teachers add to their income by putting in two or three hours a day after school is over. I am told that the people of New Haven are worried for fear that after hours' work of the teachers in the factory may decrease their efficiency in the schools. The Colt plant making automatic pistols is a nine-hour shop, but the employes are urged to work longer and are paid for the amount they turn out. Some of the men stop at 5 o'clock. some at 6 and some at 7 P. M. Many of them lay off the day after payday, and on Monday it is especially difficult to get a full force. The women are more conscientious and they lose but little time.