AMERICAN GIRLS BECOME SUCCESSFUL MILK DEALERS American girls are fast becoming efficient dairy farmers at the various agricultural training camps. One of the first of these was established at Purdue university, where the girls were trained to test milk, dairy bacteriology, general dairying and the art of cheese making and ice cream manufacture. Likewise, from California to Maine, agricultural colleges are training thousands of young ladies to step in and take the place of men already engaged in dairying, or to aid the present force to increase the production of these food products. Of this work the professor in charge at Purdue says: "Women must take men's places in order that food production be maintained. Of the many lines of production now necessary, none is more applicable to women labor than certain parts of the dairy industry. The scarcity of men who can carry on the many phases of the work required by the dairy industry is a serious handicap  to its efficient and proper development. As a matter of personal patriotism, as well as national service.  it behooves all to serve at this time in the most effective way." It was with this end in view that the various colleges and universities have designed courses to prepare women to fill the positions in factories manufacturing the various dairy products. The courses have been limited to women only, that there be no hesitancy associated with joining the classes. The classroom work is composed mostly of lectures, although in certain instances, special readings  from assigned texts are used. Laboratory exercises give personal experience in the operation of the various processes, and the major amount of time of the course is devoted to this class of work. Any woman may become an efficient milk tester, cheese or ice cream maker who has had a good common school education. No entrance examination is demanded, though all are expected to have passed the 8th grade. This gives the student a good intellectual foundation upon which to base the dairy industry course she may choose to take. Farmers' daughters and young women who lives in the country or on farms will do well to take this course of training.