Women From All Over Meet in Paris These Days - U. S. Well Represented Paris, June 20 (by mail) Women have been in Paris these last few months from all countries on all missions. So perhaps no one should have commented on the purposes which brought Mary Anderson here from Chicago and Rose Schneiderman with her from New York. But there was something "different" about these two American women that made them stand out from the jumble of diplomatic women, royalty, writers, war workers, women investigators women with missions all of them, Paris is full of them they make Paris one is tempted to believe. These two are simple, straightforward, jolly, informal, business women. They wore no uniforms, not even a badge or ribbon of decoration. And they stayed only a short time. Indeed they must be several weeks back in America now. They came to Paris for one purpose; to represent the women's labor party of America in the peace conference. Their object was to see that women laborers the world over who had had such a big part in winning the war, be given a fair representation in the peace document that ended the war. They saw officials and committees, attended meetings and conferences. They consulted with labor leaders from all the allied countries. They did not stir without a couple of interpreters, for they encountered a different language with every interview. They were given hearings before august bodies and before small groups of political potentates. They were especially interested in getting the viewpoint of women - women from England where they stopped both going and coming, and women of France, and women from America. It was their American friends who brought them to the Hotel Petrograd, the Paris hotel for American women war workers maintained by the Y. W. C. A. Here they met Mary Dingman, the Y. W. C. A's director of industrial work with French women. At once there was a great deal the three had to talk about. Miss Dingman took them to the munition factories, now changing from their munition making status to peace time industries that include everything from ribbon making to sausage manufacturing. In the munition centers the Y. W. C. A, has had clubs for the women during war times and these clubs are still going on for the same women as they turn to the peace occupations. They addressed some of thee French working women groups, at the Y. W. C. A.'s clubs, telling them the history and aims of the women's trades unions in America. Their remarks were translated to their audiences and the questions of their audiences translated back to them. One noon they went to the biggest of the association's Paris clubs. The members are clerks in the business houses and stores of the neighborhood and they came in hundreds to the little club. Miss Anderson and Miss Schneiderman couldn't talk with the girls so they danced with them. Afterwards they told them that they came from the business women of America in the interests of working women of every country. 