WOMEN IN EMPLOYMENT. The large increase in the number of women in gainful employment as shown by the latest bulletin of the census bureau on the subject is impressively indicative of the great social change that has marked the last forty years in America.. The number jumped from 2,647,157 in 1880 to 8,549,511 in 1920. Study of the relative rate of increase by decades is interesting. The real beginning of the movement, which some sociologists allude to as the economic emancipation of women, was made in the early '80's, and in that decade the number of employed women increased by 54 percent. In the decade of the nineties the increase was but 35 percent, from 4,005,532 to 5,319,397. Thereafter it made a gain of about 51 percent in the first ten years of the present century, where it would appear that the point of approximate saturation was reached. The gain for the most recent decade has been less than 6 percent. The figures are most enlightening, in respect of the changes in the nature of women's employment which they reveal. It is true that "domestic and personal service" still constitutes the most important single classification, numerically considered, but there has been noteworthy falling off both in actual numbers and in proportion to the whole number employed. Thus there were 2,531,221 in this class in 1910, while there were only 2,186,924 in 1920. They constituted 31 percent of the whole number in the former year and only 24 percent in the latter. People still living will recall the time when practically there were but three avenues of employment open to women compelled by necessity, which was usually deplored, to work. These were teaching school, domestic service and "taking boarders." The last of these three exhibits a striking decrease in the last census. The number of women boardinghouse keepers dropped from 142,000 in 1910 to 114,170 In 1920. But the falling-off extended also to women cooks, laundresses, nursemaids and house servants generally. The heads of families who have recently wrestled with the servant problem will find their experiences confirmed in the figures of the census bureau. The readjustment appears to have been practically universal. With but a slight increase in the total number of women employed in 1920 by comparison with 1910, there are  very material changes as to details. Gains in office work, in factory employment, even apparently in farming, have been made at the expense of domestic service of practically every kind. Desertion of the last-named field, moreover, is progressive and shows no indication of being stayed by any of the remedial measures that have been seriously discussed.  It is plain from these statistics that a large part of the increase in the number of women workers has been absorbed by manufacturing, a phenomenon of the age which has created wide demand for labor, such as machine-tending, involving little or no responsibility, entailing no worries outside of work hours and, while making demands upon physical strength, offering definite hours, at the conclusion of which the worker is free to direct her life as she sees fit to do. The number of women so engaged has not, however, increased materially in a decade. The number of stenographers more than doubled, while cashiers, bookkeepers and accountants grew from 187,155 in 1910 to 359,124 in 1920. Stenography, indeed, is shown as a profession of which women very nearly have a monopoly, now outnumbering the men by more than ten to one. The census bureau does not pretend to account for this; its function is merely to set down the fact. The observer of social change, now rapidly occurring especially in the field of women's labor, will find the material for serious study in this matter-of-fact but by no means un romantic report. 