Social Security Importance Grows For Women; Labor Ranks Increasing "Old-age and survivors insurance is of increasing importance to the working women of the nation because more women of mature­ age are entering the labor ranks.” Ev. Cummins, field representative of the Portland social security office, said this week. "While the number of single, widowed and divorced women workers has changed but little in recent years, there has been a  marked increase in the number  of married women workers. “This  number has grown from 7.5 million in 1947 to near 10.5 million in April 1952,” Cummins said. He pointed out the tendency during the past decade for wo­men to return to work or to take jobs for the first time after reaching middle age. This trend contrasts with the pre-war period when it was largely young wives in their twenties and early thir­ties who went into outside em­ployment. Today, the greatest proportion of working wives are in their early forties; even married women in their early fifties are entering the labor force in about the same proportions as younger women, an April 1952 survey reveals. "A women now age 50 will be fully insured for old-age insur­ance payments at age 65 after about 7.5 years of covered work,” Cummins said. An amount of covered work equal to at least one-half the time after 1950 and age 65 or death is required to be fully insured. Cummins said that around 5.3 million women workers have children under 18; over two mil­lion of these women have youngsters below school age for whose care the mothers must provide during the hours they spend at work outside the house. As sur­vivors benefits are payable to children if the supporting parent had at least a year and a half of covered work during the three years ending with death, mothers now engaged in covered work are building this social security insurance protection. Those who wish to file claims or obtain social security informa­tion may meet the representative during one of his regular weekly Columbia county visits. Mr. Cum­mins may be contacted on the second floor of the St. Helens Courthouse any Monday 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. or local residents may wish to visit or write to the Port­land office located in Room 104, Old Post Office Building, Port­land, Oregon. 