Better Laws for Women. "From a Biblical standpoint woman's suffrage is right. The Bible says that that woman shall stay home and bear children and there Is no doubt about that being proper. But man has made laws which stand In the way of this, or probably It would be better to say have failed to make laws to uphold this holy command. Woman Is forced Into the world to shift for herself. Look at the Instance back East where women were found working In smeltIng plants doing labor which caused their death within a few years and children were so worked that their bodies and lives were dwarfed. The conditions under the regime of man have worked against woman until now she Is Just as much a part of the world outside the home as the man. Why should she not have a voice in the law? The man-made laws have not made It possible for her to live up to her proper place In life. "The woman Is opposed to any condition of society which drives women out Into the world to do the labor of men and she Is opposed to any condition which permits children to go Into sweatshops and wreck their lives to satisfy the selfishness of the big business Interests. And why should they not take that stand? It Is their duty to raise the children and their duty to throw around them the protection which Is required to give them a place in society. "The sweatshop tactics are the result not of the survival of the fittest war which has characterized all time, but Is the result of the worst form of tyrannical selfishness that can be Imagined. Who can think of a worse crime than taking women into factories where they are worked to death and children are worked until they are no longer human beings but mere slaving animals? And all because they will work for less wages than men." And so we find W. M. Davis, former anti-woman suffrage warhorse In the new role of one of the most radical of women's rights advocates. He admits It Is going to be a lively fight, but says he expects to win with his backing; pf strong people. The anti-suffragist declares the problem Is two-fold In its scope. The question today is how to get votes for women. When this is solved there will pop up the all-Important question for mere man to solve, how to get votes "from" women. The opposition says most women are for anything that looks like reform whether it is reasonable or not and regardless of how it affects business Interests. When an Important proposition involving vast Interests gets into the hands of the women, they say, there Is considerably more trouble getting votes from women than at present getting; votes for women.