Women Labor Survey Set PORTLAND, Ore., Dec. 23-(AP)- Mrs. Saidie Orr Dunbar said Tuesday 24 Oregon counties have organized units to conduct a house-to-house survey of women available for labor. Mrs. Dunbar, director of the state board for mobilization of women, said nine other counties have scheduled organizational meetings, leaving only Curry, Douglas and Malheur counties without plans.Women Are Registered Lebanon Registration of eastern Linn county women in Oregon's women's labor survey got off to a flying start last Monday, then hit a temporary lull by midweek because of a shortage of registration blanks. As soon as more blanks arrive the work will proceed, Mrs. John G. Gill, chairman, announced. The city of Eugene, she said, was supplied with 200 blanks from Lebanon due to a shortage there and as a result this area found itself in the same fix. Mrs. Gill said the needed materials should be here any day. All districts in the area were being covered according to schedule, and registrations have been coming into the Lebanon employment office daily, until on Thursday about 2000 completed blanks had been received, according to Manager Cal Edwards. There is no more important reserve of labor than women, and the next two years will bring not two million, but probably three or four million women into war industries. - Thelma McKelvay, chief of War Production Board's women's labor supply service. Russian Women Busy Behind Lines By M. S. Handler (United Press Staff Correspondent) Kuibyshev, July 2 (U.P.) One of the most moving sights of this war is the sturdy peasant women of the Volga valley, white kerchiefs about their heads and in gaily colored blouses and skirts, carrying big packing cases on their backs from river docks to steamship decks. They are only a segment of the huge mass of soviet women who are making sacrifices to repel the German Invader. These Russian women undoubtedly will go down in history as heroines. They are setting the pace in every conceivable noncombatant activity. I found it difficult to comprehend, even when I saw it myself, that women are to be found stoking locomotives, managing and operating the Volga's innumerable oil refueling barges serving as ships officers, deck hands and stevedores. They use a novel harness to aid them in lifting and carrying the huge packing cases. I've seen them, in a crew including some male deckhands, labor for six hours with only brief rest intervals. In no case did the women permit the men to outwork them.  It is a common sight in the Volga valley to see women driving horse and camel carts laden with grain. These they load and unload themselves. Russian men are earning a new respect for their women and all along my trip up and down the Volga I never heard a man speak a grumbling word to the women officers, sailors, came in contact. They carry out without complaining a vast anonymous enterprise which they consider neither unusual nor exceptional. The women stevedores are constantly joking and take pride in their physical prowess. Seeing these women laborers, there appears no doubt that should the day arrive when they are needed on the front line, Russia would suffer no shortage of women eager and capable of moving into the battle as fighting units. Patriots Get Nazi Warning Bombing of Lowlands, Annihilation of Slavs Promised The Germans ordered all Dutch women between 18 and 40 years of age to register for a nazi women's labor battalion, marking the first attempt to draft women for labor in Holland. Cannery Crews Get Pay Jump San Francisco, April 1 (AP) Final approval of wage increases for 70,000 AFL cannery workers in the fruit and vegetable industry of northern California was announced Wednesday through the office of war information. The OWI said a previous war labor board approval of an agreement between the California State Council of Cannery Workers (AFL) and the California Processors and Growers association had been ratified by James F. Byrnes, director of the economic stabilization committee. Approval of the stabilization committee was essential in this case because the canners had stipulated that price increases would be needed if wages were boosted. The OWI said the agreement boosted the present minimum hourly scale for men (73 cents to $1.05) to tops ranging from 85 cents to $1.15. Women laborers' wages were increased from 60 to 70 cents an hour, and women floor inspectors' from 70 to 85 cents. More Women Labor Asked "The ladies, bless them, what would we do without them?" was the sentiment uttered by Joseph Wilson, US employment agriculture placement officer, Saturday as he issued a call for a few more women to work in the hop fields. The workers are needed Monday morning; the job is hop training; the pay, 65 cents per hour. Trucks will pick up women at the employment office at 7:30 a.m. daily, Wilson stated. WOMEN WELDERS VERY EFFICIENT DON'T KID THEM Society of Mechanical Engineers Finds Fair Sex Requires Careful Handling. By Virginia MacPherson United Press Staff Correspondent Los Angeles June 18 (U.P) Women in industry have mastered spot welding machines with the same proficience they once displayed in handling vacuum cleaners but they become flippant when kidded or coddled. This was the consensus among speakers addressing the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on the subject, "Women In War Industry." William A. Simonds, public relations official of the Ford Willow Run bomber plants said his foremen had learned two things from their women employes women are especially suited to detail work and secondly they must not be kidded or coddled by their bosses. Have Patience "In such unexpected field as tinsmith, locksmith, plumbing and cabinetmaking women workers are proving satisfactory," he said. "Jobs requiring patience. sensitive fingers and a delicate touch seem particularly adapted to them. "On fine bench work, such as electrical assemblies, they are even superior to men." But any tendency on the part of supervisor to "baby" feminine recruits has resulted in less efficient work, Simonds said. "Women cannot be kidded or instructed flippantly. If they are, they will carry out their work in the same manner, he said. "A few of our foremen at first tried to baby them and and have been sorry over since. If you coddle them at first they expect to keep on being coddled." Simonds ventured to suggest that women were as intelligent as men at least in industrial activities but indicated that womanlike, they "had to be shown" once instruction got beyond the minto mechanical technique. "In the classroom most women trainees could not grasy the idea until they were taken into the shop and shown the item under discussion. Then they returned to their desks and gave even the old grease monkeys pretty stiff competition. Some Would Stay "As for keeping the new-found job after the war," Simonds said, It was pretty much of a fifty-fifty proposition. "About half consider their jobs temporary and have no intent of of continuing," he explained. "Most of the others, having found a timeclock is something more than a neat device to control heat in a baking oven would like to keep on working. Womanpower is the only solution to the national manpower shortage, in the opinion of J.I. Onarheim, employment supervisor in the industrial relations department of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing company, Milwaukee, Wis. "Only two and a half million women are employed in our industries," he disclosed. That is less than four percent of the feminine population and is not enough." Gloom Is Forecasted  In one of the gloomiest broadcasts to come from the Japanese capital, the announcement said the aims of the measures were: "The Japanese nation in all its class and profession must fully understand the seriousness of the present internal and external situation and must be inspired by an unbending will to victory. "The nation's entire strength must be concentrated on the armaments industry, especially on the strengthening of the Japanese air force. "Strict self-sufficiency of Japan and Manchukuo as regards food supply must under all circumstances be assured. "Plans for a thoroughgoing consolidation cf the defenses of the Japanese motherland must be drawn up without delay." The broadcast said all holidays were cancelled and government machinery and industry would be greatly simplified with the cancellation of all administrative activity "deemed unnecessary for the conduct of the war." The mobilization of students would no longer be deferred, the  broadcast continued, and the "employment of women labor will lie extended." 