WOMEN DELIBERATE IN FOUR LANGUAGES International Conference Goes Unsteadily Forward. EVEN MUSIC HANDICAPPED Gathering Shows Tendency to Drift and to Forget - French   Delegates Are Most Conspicuous. OREGONIAN NEWS BUREAU. Washington, Nov. 1. After reviewing the receptions to the king and queen of the Belgians during the week and following government officials and labor leaders around for several days, one naturally looks for relaxation. It Is to be had at the auditorium of the National museum, where women labor delegates from more than 20 different countries are doing Business in four languages. The meeting, which is called an international conference of working women, convened yesterday, but there have been many delays in getting down to business. First, the women delegates never arrive on time. Next, Mrs. Raymond Robins, wealthy Chicago society woman, who is chairman of this working women's conference. In her good nature, sometimes forgets where the conference is drifting. All of yesterday's session was taken up with debates on the eight-hour day. until suddenly Mlle. Georgette Bouillot, a French delegate, arose and reminded the chairman that there was no eight-hour question before the conference, the resolutions committee not having brought in its report. Mrs. Robins admitted that the French delegate was correct and the conference adjourned that the delegates might have tea at the Fine Arts club. The gathering was to meet again this afternoon at 2 o'clock but the larger number of the delegates got to enjoying themselves in conversation in the outer museum And at 2:30 Mrs. Robins ordered the  ushers to advise delegates outside that the meeting was being called to order. Business moved slowly for many reasons. in the first place, every word uttered, starting with what Chairman Robins said, had to be translated into three languages after having been first spoken in English French, Polish and Czecho-Slovak. Mrs. Robins would talk 15 minutes. all of the conversation being taken down by Madame Somebody, French translator, who would turn to the foreign section and reel off the entire 15 minutes' speech of Mrs. Robins in exactly seven minutes, thus demonstrating the superior French speed in conversation. There were many snags at the Opening of today's proceedings. First, Chairman Robins called on the meeting to sing "The Marseillaise." This  was nuts for the French delegates. who started off just like they had been raised on it. But they sang it in French and nobody else could follow. When finally some American delegate began to supply words from an old Protestant revival hymn, the music of Which appears to have been plagiarized from the French national air. Mrs. Robins threw up her hands. She then called for "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" but there again, complications ensued because Several, including a few foreign delegates  got the thing confused with "John Brown's Body," and somebody else, probably a latent bull mooser. wanted to sing "Onward Christian Soldiers."  And still more trouble. After the committee on resolutions had brought In its report, Mrs. Robins seriously enough, and apparently without thinking how much she was upsetting orderly parliamentary procedure announced that all the resolutions submitted to the committee would he read to the conference, which meant that all of them had to be gone over in four languages. This brought Mary McArthur, secretary of the British Trade Women's league, and former labor candidate for parliament, to her feet in protest. She said the thing would never be done that way in England. And she spoke with emphasis on every word. "In England." she said, "the resolutions committee alone passes on the resolutions and only what is the committee  reports out is considered on  the floor. If you are going to listen to everything submitted to the committee this conference will be here for months instead of days doing nothing but reading resolutions." She was right, but the proceedings were in such a parliamentary knot that the translators continued to read all  the resolutions in four languages during the rest of the day. The most conspicuous of the delegates are those from France, who can be spotted by their short skirts which end at about half-way of what the surgeon calls the "upper third below the knee." And all of the delegates are not poor working girls, either. Many give signs of being merely professional friends of the working women, while others are women physicians who practice largely among the industrial populations of European cities. 