Among Dublin Girls Futile Search for Employment Drives Many to England and Scotland for Livelihood. By Ruth Russell Special Correspondence to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News.  Dublin, Ireland. May 5. "I don't want to leave home." The little ex-fusemaker one of the 2000 girl munition-workers unemployed in Dublin stood at the new deal and chicken wire enclosure in the big whitewashed room of the woman's department of the ministry of labor in lower Abbey street "But there's no factory job in Ireland." argued the efficient young woman clerk. "Besides you can earn twice as much in England." During the war 80,000 placements of Irish boys and girls were made in munition factories in England and Scotland. In the 60 years previous to the war Ireland's population of 8,000,000 was cut in two by emigration. Will emigration continue?  "I want to stay in Dublin," repeated the girl, less decisively. "But I've been out of work, since the armistice." Out in the driving spring sleet the girl's resolution returned. Maybe, she said, the clerk did not know everything. So we bent our way to Dublin's show factory a big windowed biscuit plant where 1000 girls are employed at the highest woman's wages in Dublin, $4.50 and $10 a week. "America's factories are like this, they say. Everyone wants to get placed here. But it takes influence, because they can have their pick of girls," explained the little fusemaker when we were refused. Down a puddly, straw strewn lane we were blown by the wind to a candy factory. It was next in factory size to the biscuit plant. Dublin considers a 50 to 100 hand plant very large. At this place, too, it was possible to earn $4.50 a week, but the thumbed sign on the door read. "No hands wanted."  The girl hesitated and intertwined her fingers. "Three weeks ago a girl I knew went past the sign, and she got a job. You must be b-brassy." Up the narrow treaded wooden stairs we mounted to a big room where girls sitting sideways on a long table nailed yellow wooden candy containers together. Through a crack between the planks of the floor we could see hard red candies swirling below. As the melting sleet was pooling off our hats, the ticking aproned manager came out to splutter : "Can't you read?" A tiny ass with a flat cart that had two bundles of paper on it waited in front of the half-door of the two story paper factory in the side street where we stopped next. Burlap aproned girl sorters get from $2 a week up. But paper control has just been removed, so here as well as at a rubber factory where the wages are $1.50 to $2.55 a week we were refused help. Up in a loftlike factory where about  2O girls stuffed dolls with sawdust and I daubed red paint on their cheeks, an excited little manager told us he would lose his own job soon. The new woman's trade union wanted him to pay more than $1 a week and lessen the hours from 12 to eight. Wasn't some job better than none at all? The face of the little ammunition maker as she told me that she would meet me at the ministry of labor in the morning was puckered with indecision.  That night along Gloucester street,  past the Georgian mansions built before  the union of Ireland and England flat uprising structures from behind whose verdigrised brass trimmed doors came the murmur of many numbered tenement families I walked until I came to a shining brass plated door. "Why don't you go to England?" was the first question the matron of the working girls' home put to me when I told her I could get no work. "All the girls are." In the stone flagged cellar where the girls cook their individual suppers, a strapping tweed suited girl stood erect at a stove set deep in the stone wall. "Last time I got lonesome," she admitted as she regarded the bread she was toasting on a fork above the red coals. "But my fare's to be paid. I ll have a 44-hour week. And glass bottle workers earn from $12 to $20 a week oh, I won't get lonesome this time." Next morning at the mouth of the Saggy brick alley that leads to the applicants'  entrance at the ministry of labor I met the little fusemaker. She was coming out of the alley, and she smiled a little uncertainly as she said" "Shirt making. Seven-fifty. Edinb-burg." The "Weaker" Sex Women found, new occupations during the war, as everybody realizes. But the variety of their new employments is not so well known. An English engineer declare he can build a battleship from keel to aerial entirely with women's labor. A New York maker of airplanes planned to have them in every part of his plant, from drafting room to assembling shop. From The Nation's Business for June. 