WOMEN OF FRANCE ORGANIZE UNIONS BARRING THE MEN Important Decisions Are Taken for Guidance of Women Workers at Four-Day Paris Session. By William E. Nash Special Cable to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News (Copyright, 1920, by Chicago Daily News Co.) Paris, France, Feb. 7. A new element is coming to the fore in the French labor situation, that of unions composed entirely of women workers. "La Federation Francaise des Syndicats Professionels Feminins,"' (French Professional Women's Unions) has just finished a four days' congress at which delegates were present from every large city in France and at which important decisions were taken for the guidance of women workers. "We urge all workers of our sex to join labor unions," said the president of the federation. "I refer especially to the textile, clothing and retail commerce unions, which have already become a power in the business world. We must better the conditions under which French women labor, especially in relation to the apprenticeship of young girls and the treatment of women at the period of maternity. Wages, too, in some industries, are ridiculously low. "Unlike certain men's unions it is against our principles to take radical measures suddenly. We never present ultimatums to the employers and then stop work 10 minutes later if the demands have been refused. Only as a last resource do we resort to strikes. When women workers feel abused they appeal to the nearest women's union or federation, which makes careful study of the situation. If it decides that the petitioners are right it draws up a series of recommendations and lays them before the employer. Then his or her side of the matter is heard. If there is any national interest which forbids a change, our action is indefinitely postponed; if not or if the employer is definitely wrong, we appeal to justice in all its forms to the courts, the newspapers and public opinion. Only when justice itself refuses to intervene do we go to extremes. Political strikes we hold to be absolutely unjustifiable." 