How We Know That Women Work Harder Than Men U. S. Government's Interesting Tests and Experiments to Find Out the Difference Between One "Horse Power," and One "Man-Power" and One "Woman-Power" HOUSEHOLD drudgery is hard work. Nobody denies that.  Is it as hard or harder than the physical labor that men perform? It used to be said that the average farmer "out West" was living with his second wife or with his third. He used up two or three wives during his lifetime; the women were literally worked to death. The Government States Relations Service has been making a study of these matters. It is particularly interested in finding out just how much energy is consumed in the performance of the various household tasks which the average woman is obliged to undertake.  For instance, a certain amount of energy Is consumed in taking care of a baby. How much is it? The experts had made to order a life-size model of a year-old infant a doll of wood for which an outfit of clothing was provided, including a shirt, two underskirts, a knitted jacket, socks, bootees and bonnet. A woman dressed and undressed this mannequin seven times in two hours, not in haste, but doing the job in an ordinary way. The amount of energy she expended per hour was exactly, measured. To accomplish this she was put into an airtight case the size of a small bathroom, with walls of heavy plate glass. Oxygen, supplied from a tank, kept the air fresh inside. So completely was the box, with its temporary occupant, under scrutiny, so to speak, with the help of electrical and other ingenious contrivances, that even the woman's breath was analyzed. The main problem, however, was to determine the amount of heat given off by the woman's body; for this was the exact measure of the amount of energy which, as an engine, she developed. The heat (representing energy) was measured by thermometers of extraordinary delicacy, recording the hundredth part of a degree. If the woman in the box rose from her chair, they went up a little. If she stretched out her arms, the muscular effort raised the temperature, as noted by the instruments outside, perceptibly. ; A current of cold water was kept flowing in and out of the box. The quantity of water used and its rate of flow being known, the amount of heat it absorbed and carried out of the chamber was readily ascertained, and thereby was determined just how much energy the woman's body engine developed. When the woman sat perfectly still in her chair the energy she developed was sixty-one "calories" per hour. It took that much to keep the machinery of her body running to operate her heart-pump and maintain her digestive and other vital functions.  Anybody may notice that the body of a sleeping person gives off considerable heat, which represents energy consumed in operating the vital mechanism. At death the production of energy ceases, and the body quickly turns cold.  While the woman was engaged in dressing and undressing the dummy child her output of energy, as measured by the thermometers, was eighty-five calories per hour. Hence it appeared that twenty-four calories were expended in the muscular effort which this labor demanded. A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a pint of water four degrees Fahrenheit. Thus the energy expended in dressing and undressing the wooden baby for one hour was equivalent to the amount of heat needed to raise a quart of water from freezing point to seventy degrees of the thermometer. The experts declare this to mean that baby-dressing is to be classed as "moderately heavy labor." But they confess that the test was not altogether fair, inasmuch as the dummy child weighed less than four and a half pounds, whereas a live year-old infant would weigh three or four times that much. Furthermore, it does not seem to have occurred to them to consider that a live baby, while being dressed and undressed, makes the task more difficult by constant wriggling. How many calories, one might ask, for the wriggles? Some time ago the experts were struck with the idea that it would be a good thing to know what a woman power was. They could give the figures for a horse power, and likewise for a man power, which latter they had determined by means of the sealed glass box already described. But they had no worthwhile estimate for a woman power. Was it half of a man power, three-fifths, or one-third? Nobody could say.  Now, however, they are able to answer the question, having made a series of exact measurements of energy expended under various conditions. Of course, women, according to their physical equipment, are able to develop more or less energy, just as one engine can deliver more or less power than another. It is the average woman that is here considered, as compared with the average man. The woman, when at rest, expends sixty-one calories per hour: the man, being a larger and more highly developed animal, expends 100 calories per hour while in repose. The number of calories in addition expended per hour in various degrees of muscular effort is, for the two sexes, about as follows: Woman: Moderate exercise..... 24 Vigorous exercise...... 39 Hard labor 60 Utmost exertion....... 125 Man: Moderate exercise..... 70  Vigorous exercise...... 130 Hard labor 200 Utmost exertion....... 450 This is to be accepted only as approximate. But the figures prove that a woman power is not more than one-third of a man power. Incidentally they show that the average woman is a much less efficient engine than For, while developing only one-third as much energy, she consumes, in the shape of food, four-fifths as much fuel as he does. A woman of exceptionally fine physique may be able to develop more energy than a weakly man. The conclusions drawn by the experts from their experimental tests relate not to individual instances, but to averages. If, as they find, a woman is only one third of a man power, the inference is plain that women work harder than men, relatively to the amount of energy which they, as machines, are able to develop.  They devote a greater number of hours per day to labor which, relatively to the energy they are able to produce, is properly to be classed as arduous. There is much truth in the old saying that, whereas a man's work is from sun to sun "a woman's work is never done." She has fewer hours of real rest. The labor of a woman in the home begins from the moment she gets up in the morning and starts the kitchen fire, and continues until she has undressed and put the baby to bed and then done two or three hours sewing and mending while her husband goes to the factory or the shop or the office at 7 or 8 o'clock and quits at about 5 p. m., through with his toil for the day. On Sundays and holidays he can loaf, while his wife on those days must work much as usual. If a woman is employed in a shop, factory or office she is likely to have much additional work to do at home, even though she be unmarried. Thus there can be no question of the fact that the women's labor, relatively to the energy output of which her physical engine is capable, is harder than that of the man.  To ascertain all this many, and varied and interesting tests and experiments with women were made. Dancing is moderate exercise. Tennis is vigorous exercise. When a girl plays a game of tennis she gets flushed and warm. The energy she has developed appears in the form of heat. This is exactly what happens when a woman makes any kind of muscular effort; all of the energy utilized in that way is finally converted into heat, which, in the glass box, as already explained, can be measured. A woman, put into the box, was set to work at various employments. She knitted; she hemmed handkerchiefs; she darned stockings; she swept the floor; she scrubbed the floor; she washed towels ; she ironed towels ; she washed dishes, etc. In each instance measurement was made of the amount of energy she expended.  In knitting, at twenty-three stitches a minute, her expenditure of energy was slightly greater than in crocheting, because, with the longer needles, there was more play of the hands and arms. Sewing with a running stitch involved less expenditure of energy than hemming, because the movement of drawing the thread to full length was made only once in every six stitches, or five times a minute. This observation was in line with the practical experience of needleworkers, who avoid an unnecessarily long thread as causing too much work for the arms. The woman in the box did her ironing at a rate of seventy strokes in fifty seconds, with ten seconds to change towels. She used a cold iron, because a hot one would have complicated the heat measurement.  She washed the towels without water and with an empty pail, to avoid making a slop in the box, but went through all the motions, with eighty-five short rubs in fifty seconds and ten seconds for wringing. This test of course was not wholly fair, because articles going to make up a family wash would average larger, and if wet they would be heavier. The conclusions drawn from the experiments were that ironing and dishwashing were to be classed as moderately heavy labor; that sweeping was hard work, and that washing clothes and scrubbing floors were very arduous. Sewing by hand is very light work, as measured in calories, involving little expenditure of energy.  The dishwashing test was applied with the table at various heights. When it was at the proper height for comfort the calorie output per hour was only twenty-one. When it was so high that the arms had to be raised to reach into the dishpan, the measurement showed twenty-five calories. When the woman was obliged to stoop over the pan it rose to thirty calories. These facts make it plain that the equipment of a kitchen should be made to fit the worker's height. Care of offspring cuts a large figure in the labors of most married women. Hence the experts are contemplating a comprehensive series of experiments in the measurement of energy expended in looking after living children.  If the average woman devotes eight hours to sleep, four hours to light muscular exercise, six hours to moderate work, and six hours to rest, she will be obliged in twenty-four hours to expend a total of about 1,822 calories enough, that is to say, to raise 230 gallons of water from freezing point to the scalding temperature of 182 degrees Fahrenheit. One understands, then, what the diet sharps are driving at when they tell the housewife that in the purchase of her food supplies she should take importantly into consideration the matter of calories, which represent the energy required to drive the body machine. Some foods make much better fuel than others. Sugar, fats and starches rank very high in this respect. Potatoes are rich in starch, and the cereal grains even more so. Hence it is that these foods are fattening; for fat is fuel stored in the body. A pound of butter represents 3,605 calories; $c pound of lard 4,010 calories; a pound of cheese, 2,100 calories; a pound of white bread, 1,065 calories. A pound of eggs will furnish only 265 calories. With the sealed glass box it has been ascertained just how much of a woman's energy is expended in running a sewing machine for an hour, or in the cooking of a meal. To set up a range in the box was not practicable, but all the culinary processes could be duplicated without a fire, from the peeling of potatoes to the mixing of a cake, and even to the placing of a meal upon the table.  In order that a woman may maintain her health and working capacity while accomplishing best results by her labor it is necessary that there, shall be a proper balance between the energy she expends and the energy-producing food which is chemically burned in her body. Suppose an egg to represent thirty-three calories. Then a woman would require three eggs to supply an energy equivalent for one hour's moderate labor at ironing or dishwashing. Four lumps of sugar would supply twice that much energy. But, of course, sugar is simply fuel, and contributes nothing for the making of blood and muscle. The same is true of starch. Eggs and meat, beans and peas and wheat bread contain much body-building stuff. The Government experts are doing their best to contrive means whereby women's energy may be economized rendering their work easier. They preach the merits of the small kitchen, which saves man miles of foot travel every day, and this idea of late has taken hold. Flat dwellers have learned to appreciate the labor-saving value of the small kitchen, and also the importance of having it close by the dining room. In these days a house with a basement kitchen is hard to rent. The work of the experts is by no means restricted to scientific investigation. Much of it is represented in a concrete way by useful inventions which signify a great deal in the saving of women's toil.