WOMEN'S PLACE  IN SOCIAL WORK SPEAKER’S TOPIC Mrs. Trumbull Talks to Class in Ethics; Knowledge of Conditions Needed CO-ED COOPERATION ASKED Methods Used in Conservation of Laborer’s Physical Powers Discussed College women have a large place in the program of improvement of the conditions of working women, according to Mrs. Millie R. Trumbull, secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission and Child Labor board, who addressed the class in Villard hall yesterday afternoon. The first requisite, according to Mrs. Trumbull, is that the college women must understand the conditions under which the working women labor Knowing this, they can then take steps toward real social service, in encouraging the workers in the factories to better their conditions. In her talk to the class in ethics, Mrs. Trumbull emphasized the great importance of keeping the body in fit condition to do the work for which pay is received. “We must have a strong, healthy body,” said Mrs. Trumbull. "The uncertain worker is a liability to the employer. What we want to sell to our employer is our bodily strength, so when a girl goes out to take a position, one of the first things she must do is to equip her body so that it can be depended upon.” Present Conditions Discussed Discussing working conditions in factories and other places where women gather to work every day, Mrs. Trumbull pointed out some of the efforts that are being made to make working conditions more favorable to conservation of the workers’ strength and health. All of the modern factories, she said, are being built so that they occupy one story wherever possible to obtain enough ground to build in this way. Concrete floors are covered with linoleum or boards where the workers must stand. This is one of the requirements of the Oregon labor laws. When asked how, in her opinion, the working conditions for women in Oregon compare with those of other states, Mrs. Trumbull replied that she believes that, as a general thing, they are good. Consideration must be made, however, for the nature of the industry in question, she said. The Oregon employers have not been as reactionary as in other states, especially in the east and midwest, with the result that the wages have not been cut as severely here as in other sections of the United States. Last summer, for the first time, the Consumers’ league sent a working woman to Bryn Mawr, to spend the summer on the campus and study any subjects she desired. This undertaking cost the league about $1,000 and the results were quite satisfactory. Mrs. Trumbull believes that a movement should be started to send the delegate from Oregon to the University of Oregon, rather than to the eastern school, as the University offers quite as great advantages, and the added expense saved may be used perhaps in sending more than one delegate. This matter will have Mrs. Trumbull’s careful attention, and it is possible that before long some action will be taken in this direction. Interested In Child Labor Mrs. Trumbull is keenly interested in the question of laboring conditions of women and minors. She has been connected with this work in Oregon ever since the passage of the original child labor law in 1903. The commission appointed, by ex-Governor Chamberlain consisted of women, who served without pay. Incidentally, it may be said, that women were appointed for this post because they would serve without pay. Since the Child Labor board and the Industrial Welfare commission were joined together in 1917, Mrs. Trumbull has retained the office of secretary of both departments. As secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission, Mrs. Trumbull’s duty is to inspect factories and industrial plants for working conditions and payrolls for the enforcement of the minimum wage law. She has been in Eugene this week inspecting the various places where women are employed. 