Shipbuilding Only a Part. Shipbuilding is only a part of the Clyde and the Glasgow war activities. Here are great munition plants, in which literally armies of uniformed women labor; airplane and airship factories, tank and gun and gas factories. There is no branch of war industry that cannot be found in this region of Scotland. Probably the greatest certainly the most interesting of the big plants on the Clyde is that of William Beardmore  & Co. Before the war this concern built only ships. Now, in addition to ships, it makes guns, shells, airplanes, airships and tanks. It has expanded from a pay roll that included 4800 men  to a pay roll that includes 35,000 persons, about 12,000 of whom are women.  I asked the general manager, Mr.  Campbell, of this company, if it be came necessary could his firm expand still further. "Beyond question we could," he said. "We are not near our limit yet."MUNITIONS TOILERS RECUPERATE BY TILLING FARMS LONDON, Nov. 16 (By mail.) The English girls who have toiled so hard making munitions to back the boys have not only given their time and their work, but many of them have given their most precious possession health. An interesting and successful experiment has been made in transferring groups of girls from munition factories to work on the land. The doctors had recommended that these women should get into the open air, where they would have a chance to recover their original vitality. The women's branch of the food production department has given the care of these girls special attention. So successful has the experiment been the welfare workers of these respective branches of women's labor are establishing centers on the same line so that the good work of restoring munition girls to health may be continued. The Cleveland street car strike was not the first instance of antagonism to women's labor. The street car employes of Detroit have also served notice that after a certain date, women will not be allowed to hold union membership and will not be expected to retain their jobs.
Many British Women Will Continue To Hold Jobs London, Dec. 14. (By mail) Wanted: Work for 500,000 women. The number of women who will be thrown out of work by the ending of the war is not so great as imagined. About one and a half million extra women have been employed in the United Kingdom since July, 1914, but the number of killed and disabled men amounts to about one million. Therefore there remain 500,000 women workers who will be displaced. Their displacement will come gradually and they will not be thrown on the labor market at once, for 1-3 of the increase in women's labor consists of dilutees. Until the men come back they will remain at their jobs. In the meantime many new spheres have sprung up for women. They will continue making tools and machinery, they will be employed in subsidiary ship building industries, they will do their share in the chemical trades; and also, there are two quite new branches of work open to women of the United Kingdom the manufacture of pianos and toys, both of which industries are being wrested from the hands of the Hun. The outlook for women is cheerful. The Evils of Mismating The Dalles, Or., Dec. 22. To the Editor of The Journal I believe, with "Olga," that at least the women who have any male support could and should yield their positions to returning soldiers, or try to secure lighter and less strenuous jobs. The world now acknowledges that women, for the most part, are equal to men. In the past the woman was indeed too obscure and downtrodden, but now that her fight for equality is recognized is no reason she need go to extremes and neglect wifehood and motherhood, which must be done more or less if she is to lead a public life of any kind. Too many have come to look down upon the most sacred calling of womanhood, and call it drudgery. What folly! I believe it is mainly our marriage system that sends so many women out into the world, away from home. So many are mismated, and produce restless, discontented children. It is these that are going to extremes. Let us teach children how to choose a mate carefully, not just for looks, money or position teach them to choose on their own level mentally. Let them be congenial, then wifehood, motherhood and home will come into rightful place. I see no permanent relief until congenial mating is reached. Then not only will public women laborers become less, but many other evils will also disappear, such as defective, immoral, thieving, hating, killing humanity, which will come forth no more. Schools are needed everywhere to enlighten those of marriageable ages, aa well as help those already mismated. M. CLARK. The Soldier, the Land, the Job Medford. Or., Jan. 1. To the Editor of The Journal Everyone seems determined to put the soldiers returning to their comfortable homes out on logged off lands, or on irrigation units, on some far off desert homestead. One would think the returning man at arms of the present day was the genus hobo. Why not consult him? Every man anyone knows anything about has a home and either a place in school or a job awaiting him the identical job he left to perform the duty he was born to. The women are not going to crowd him out not at all. That is not the way of women. When there is any crowding, I have noticed, it is not the man who gets shoved out. Solicitude for our returning heroes is good, but it can be run into the ground, and these logged off and irrigation propositions look like that, precisely. Has young America changed his nature, that he must be penalized to life servitude on logged off lands, now that he is on the way home? Before the war you could not have given him all the logged off land in the state, if he had been required to reside thereon in person. Is he any different now? Why not let Hero alone? Let him return to his vine, fig tree and job, and let the other fellow, who took his place, return to the looking out for a job stunt? JUNIUS. Women of Britain Wrest  Toy Making From Hun (By United Press.) LONDON, Dec. 14 (By Mail.) Wanted: Work for 500,000 women. The number of women who will be  thrown out of work by the ending of  the war is not so great as is imagined.  About one and a half million extra  women have been employed in the United Kingdom since July, 1914, but the number of killed and disabled men amounts to about one million. Therefore there remain 500,000 women workers who will be displaced. Their displacement will come gradually and they will not be thrown on the labor market at once, for 1-3 of the increase in women's labor consists of dilutees. Until the men come back they will remain at their jobs. In the meantime many new spheres have sprung up for women. They will continue making tools and machinery, they will be employed in subsidiary shipbuilding industries, they will do their share in the chemical trades; and also, there are two quite new branches of work open to women of the United Kingdom the manufacture of pianos and toys, both of which industries are being wrested from the hands of the Hun. French Women's Labor Studied. "Going to Paris, November 1. for a rest, I found a request from the United States Department of Labor for me to make an investigation of labor done by women in France, and this investigation consumed a month. Because of the letters I had I obtained everything I required from the French Government and have accumulated some interesting data for the United States Department of Labor. In England, on my return, I investigated along the same line.  Women Replace Aliens, Run London Hotels and Clubs (By United Press.) LONDON, Dec. 27. (By Mail.) There is one branch of service which  is going to make a big call on woman labor.  Hitherto one of the least exploited fields of service for women is in ho tels and clubs. Before the war this  field was monopolized by aliens, but many of them will never be permitted  to return to it, and it is certain that, hotel and club managers will avail  themselves gladly of women's labor  to meet the demand of their repleted staffs.  Even in the most conservative clubs women have replaced men so successfully during the war there is little doubt that their services will be retained, as waitresses, bookkeepers and interpreters. Several hotels have been managed entirely bv women during the war, and patrons of the hotels have declared  that they never received better service. Running a hotel is very much like running a household on a large scale,  and so women here find themselves  in a proper setting. This field will  embrace many types and many classes  of women. There are positions ranging from scullery maid to manager. OREGON SIDELIGHTS A women's labor service is to be established in Eugene, and the housewives who are yearning for kitchen help will take another lease of hope, the Register opines.WOMEN OF WORLD THANK WILSON FOR FOSTERING RIGHTS President Makes Touching Reply to French Women Who Call at Villa Murat to Greet Him. DESIRE FOR A NEW WORLD Unspoken Suffering of Heart One of Tragical Things of War Borne by Wives and Mothers. By Harry Hansen Special Cable to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News (Copyright. 1919, by Chicago Daily News Co.) Paris, Feb. 1. The question of the position of women in the various countries cannot be taken up by the peace conference because it is an internal matter and the likelihood of the conference doing anything for women depends entirely upon what it will do for labor, of which women's labor a naturally a part, and which is now made an international issue. This was the stand taken by President Wilson in an address to a delegation of 80 French women who called at the Villa Murat to express their gratitude for his share in ending the war and also to plead that he sweep aside all egotism and selfishness of peoples and not be tempted by compromises. In his extemporaneous response the president said: "In the great matter that you have so much at heart the right of women to take their full share in the government of the nation to which they belong that is necessarily a domestic question for the separate nations. A conference of peace, settling the relations of nations with each other, would be regarded as going very much outside of its province if it undertook to dictate to the several states what their internal policy should be.  ECONOMIC WAR NOW WAGED BY ENGLISH WOMEN LONDON Correspondence of the Associated Press An economic battle is being waged over the 1,500,000 unemployed women of the country who earned good wages chiefly as munitions workers during the war. Some English newspapers and commentators are asking if a sex war is one of the sinister possibilities of the future. They point out that the situation is more dangerous than when the suffragettes were wont to smash windows and terrorize the London police, because the women did not then know the full measure of their power. Since the armistice was signed it has become more and more apparent that these 1,500,000 women workers would have to return to private life so as to give opportunity of employment for returning soldiers. Hut they have not accepted the situation with good grace, and have answered the challenge of the economic condition by strong organizations, whose avowed intention is to safeguard the position of women in industry. The most important of these is Lady Rhondda's newly inaugurated Women's Industrial League, which has opened offices in London and sent organizers into all parts of the country Lady Rhodda's plans are viewed with suspicion and some measure of distrust by professional women labor leaders. Dr Marion Phillips, chief woman officer of the labor party, asserts that the agitation conducted by Lady Rhondda's league is calculated to lead to bitterness and sex strife between men and women workers. Farmerettes of Colleges Are Increasing Land Workers' Clubs Take Many Women to Country for Vacation Work. THERE is nothing like a seasoned farmerette for playing the Pied Piper and calling others after her! Sixty percent of the farmerettes of last year were college women. The steady growth of land-workers' clubs in the different colleges testify to their power of persuading their fellow students to seek an entire change from the winter's intellectual strain, by engaging in the free activities of farm life during vacation time. These college, clubs will doubtless become leading factors in recruiting women's labor for next summer. Among the colleges already boasting of such organizations may be listed: Barnard college, Goucher, Mount Holyoke, Randolph-Macon. Simmons, Smith, Sweet Briar, Wellesley, Wells college, Wheaton. Wilson, and 5 Women's college of Delaware.  The clubs are affiliating with the United States employment service, department of labor. Among Dublin Girls Futile Search for Employment Drives Many to England and Scotland for Livelihood. By Ruth Russell Special Correspondence to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News.  Dublin, Ireland. May 5. "I don't want to leave home." The little ex-fusemaker one of the 2000 girl munition-workers unemployed in Dublin stood at the new deal and chicken wire enclosure in the big whitewashed room of the woman's department of the ministry of labor in lower Abbey street "But there's no factory job in Ireland." argued the efficient young woman clerk. "Besides you can earn twice as much in England." During the war 80,000 placements of Irish boys and girls were made in munition factories in England and Scotland. In the 60 years previous to the war Ireland's population of 8,000,000 was cut in two by emigration. Will emigration continue?  "I want to stay in Dublin," repeated the girl, less decisively. "But I've been out of work, since the armistice." Out in the driving spring sleet the girl's resolution returned. Maybe, she said, the clerk did not know everything. So we bent our way to Dublin's show factory a big windowed biscuit plant where 1000 girls are employed at the highest woman's wages in Dublin, $4.50 and $10 a week. "America's factories are like this, they say. Everyone wants to get placed here. But it takes influence, because they can have their pick of girls," explained the little fusemaker when we were refused. Down a puddly, straw strewn lane we were blown by the wind to a candy factory. It was next in factory size to the biscuit plant. Dublin considers a 50 to 100 hand plant very large. At this place, too, it was possible to earn $4.50 a week, but the thumbed sign on the door read. "No hands wanted."  The girl hesitated and intertwined her fingers. "Three weeks ago a girl I knew went past the sign, and she got a job. You must be b-brassy." Up the narrow treaded wooden stairs we mounted to a big room where girls sitting sideways on a long table nailed yellow wooden candy containers together. Through a crack between the planks of the floor we could see hard red candies swirling below. As the melting sleet was pooling off our hats, the ticking aproned manager came out to splutter : "Can't you read?" A tiny ass with a flat cart that had two bundles of paper on it waited in front of the half-door of the two story paper factory in the side street where we stopped next. Burlap aproned girl sorters get from $2 a week up. But paper control has just been removed, so here as well as at a rubber factory where the wages are $1.50 to $2.55 a week we were refused help. Up in a loftlike factory where about  2O girls stuffed dolls with sawdust and I daubed red paint on their cheeks, an excited little manager told us he would lose his own job soon. The new woman's trade union wanted him to pay more than $1 a week and lessen the hours from 12 to eight. Wasn't some job better than none at all? The face of the little ammunition maker as she told me that she would meet me at the ministry of labor in the morning was puckered with indecision.  That night along Gloucester street,  past the Georgian mansions built before  the union of Ireland and England flat uprising structures from behind whose verdigrised brass trimmed doors came the murmur of many numbered tenement families I walked until I came to a shining brass plated door. "Why don't you go to England?" was the first question the matron of the working girls' home put to me when I told her I could get no work. "All the girls are." In the stone flagged cellar where the girls cook their individual suppers, a strapping tweed suited girl stood erect at a stove set deep in the stone wall. "Last time I got lonesome," she admitted as she regarded the bread she was toasting on a fork above the red coals. "But my fare's to be paid. I ll have a 44-hour week. And glass bottle workers earn from $12 to $20 a week oh, I won't get lonesome this time." Next morning at the mouth of the Saggy brick alley that leads to the applicants'  entrance at the ministry of labor I met the little fusemaker. She was coming out of the alley, and she smiled a little uncertainly as she said" "Shirt making. Seven-fifty. Edinb-burg." The "Weaker" Sex Women found, new occupations during the war, as everybody realizes. But the variety of their new employments is not so well known. An English engineer declare he can build a battleship from keel to aerial entirely with women's labor. A New York maker of airplanes planned to have them in every part of his plant, from drafting room to assembling shop. From The Nation's Business for June. Women Vote for League of Nations As Basis of Peace Centralia. June 20. The Washington State Federation of Women's Clubs, holding its twenty-third annual convention here, "Thursday adopted a resolution, favoring a League of Nations or any means to secure world-wide peace, based on principles of justice. Other resolutions indorsed an educational bureau for the social morality campaign, being conducted by the government, the establishment by congress of a permanent women's labor bureau, a movement to secure equal pay for equal work, a movement to limit the price of food to a reasonable profit, the discouragement of extravagant dress for women in schools and stores and on the streets, the Smith-Hoke-Towner bill providing for a secretary of education in the president's cabinet, and a raise in the minimum wage for women. WOMEN STIMULATE INTEREST Tirelessly these women labored to interest the farmers in the new venture and to obtain knowledge of the best methods for handling the crop. Naturally, discouragements were met, and some methods were put in the discard, but at last a practical working system was found and Oregon proved to the world her ability to grow flax equal to the best in Belgium. The fibre bureau of the department of agriculture sent for Mr. Loppens, a Belgian expert who had invented tanks for the retting of flax which could be used in districts where the straw could not be river retted. The fibre bureau announced that they sent for this noted man to teach Oregon the tank system because convinced the efforts of the women of Oregon would eventually result in developing a great industry in this great state of the West. Europe was quick to recognize the superior quality of the Oregon grown fibre, and sent many requests for shipments, but the money market was still tight and not enough could be raised to finance production on a large scale. GOMPERS CRITICIZES CHARTER GIVEN LABOR Greater Rights Asked in Peace Treaty Provision. HUNS DISPUTE ARGUMENT American Leader at Trades Union Conference Pleads for Equality of Women and Men. AMSTERDAM, Aug. 4. (By the Associated Press.) Samuel Gompers, president of the American Federation of Labor, and head of the American council to the international trades union federation in session here, pleaded for greater rights for labor Sunday. His address followed the report of a committee which said it could not accept the charter given labor in the peace treaty as a full expression of the workers' demands. Mr. Gompers demanded that labor should not be regarded as an article of commerce. He urged also that a seamen's act be enacted to permit sailors to leave ships when they were safely in harbor. He pleaded for the equality of women and men, and abolition of involuntary services. German delegates disputed Mr. Gompers' argument, which, thev said, made it appear European labor unions were too conservative. They demanded that the workers strive for a realization of The Berne conference's programme, including regulation of children's education, women's labor, shorter hours. Sunday rest and supervision of home industries. WASHINGTON Every one of the 80 election officials named to conduct the special bonding election at Aberdeen on August 26 are women. Labor shortage precludes use of man.WELFARE BODY NOT BOUND Acceptance of Conference Findings on Women's Labor Discretional. SALEM, Or., Aug. 14. (Special.) The Oregon Industrial Welfare commission is not bound by the recommendations of any conference with regard to hours of labor, wording conditions and compensation for women, according to a legal opinion given today by I. H. Vanwinkle, assistant attorney-general. The opinion was asked by Mrs. Trumbull, secretary of the industrial welfare commission. following recommendations of a recent conference in Portland that a 48-hour week and maximum nine-hour work day for women be established. The assistant attorney-general holds that acceptance of these recommendations are discretional with the welfare commission. Women From All Over Meet in Paris These Days - U. S. Well Represented Paris, June 20 (by mail) Women have been in Paris these last few months from all countries on all missions. So perhaps no one should have commented on the purposes which brought Mary Anderson here from Chicago and Rose Schneiderman with her from New York. But there was something "different" about these two American women that made them stand out from the jumble of diplomatic women, royalty, writers, war workers, women investigators women with missions all of them, Paris is full of them they make Paris one is tempted to believe. These two are simple, straightforward, jolly, informal, business women. They wore no uniforms, not even a badge or ribbon of decoration. And they stayed only a short time. Indeed they must be several weeks back in America now. They came to Paris for one purpose; to represent the women's labor party of America in the peace conference. Their object was to see that women laborers the world over who had had such a big part in winning the war, be given a fair representation in the peace document that ended the war. They saw officials and committees, attended meetings and conferences. They consulted with labor leaders from all the allied countries. They did not stir without a couple of interpreters, for they encountered a different language with every interview. They were given hearings before august bodies and before small groups of political potentates. They were especially interested in getting the viewpoint of women - women from England where they stopped both going and coming, and women of France, and women from America. It was their American friends who brought them to the Hotel Petrograd, the Paris hotel for American women war workers maintained by the Y. W. C. A. Here they met Mary Dingman, the Y. W. C. A's director of industrial work with French women. At once there was a great deal the three had to talk about. Miss Dingman took them to the munition factories, now changing from their munition making status to peace time industries that include everything from ribbon making to sausage manufacturing. In the munition centers the Y. W. C. A, has had clubs for the women during war times and these clubs are still going on for the same women as they turn to the peace occupations. They addressed some of thee French working women groups, at the Y. W. C. A.'s clubs, telling them the history and aims of the women's trades unions in America. Their remarks were translated to their audiences and the questions of their audiences translated back to them. One noon they went to the biggest of the association's Paris clubs. The members are clerks in the business houses and stores of the neighborhood and they came in hundreds to the little club. Miss Anderson and Miss Schneiderman couldn't talk with the girls so they danced with them. Afterwards they told them that they came from the business women of America in the interests of working women of every country. WOMEN DELIBERATE IN FOUR LANGUAGES International Conference Goes Unsteadily Forward. EVEN MUSIC HANDICAPPED Gathering Shows Tendency to Drift and to Forget - French   Delegates Are Most Conspicuous. OREGONIAN NEWS BUREAU. Washington, Nov. 1. After reviewing the receptions to the king and queen of the Belgians during the week and following government officials and labor leaders around for several days, one naturally looks for relaxation. It Is to be had at the auditorium of the National museum, where women labor delegates from more than 20 different countries are doing Business in four languages. The meeting, which is called an international conference of working women, convened yesterday, but there have been many delays in getting down to business. First, the women delegates never arrive on time. Next, Mrs. Raymond Robins, wealthy Chicago society woman, who is chairman of this working women's conference. In her good nature, sometimes forgets where the conference is drifting. All of yesterday's session was taken up with debates on the eight-hour day. until suddenly Mlle. Georgette Bouillot, a French delegate, arose and reminded the chairman that there was no eight-hour question before the conference, the resolutions committee not having brought in its report. Mrs. Robins admitted that the French delegate was correct and the conference adjourned that the delegates might have tea at the Fine Arts club. The gathering was to meet again this afternoon at 2 o'clock but the larger number of the delegates got to enjoying themselves in conversation in the outer museum And at 2:30 Mrs. Robins ordered the  ushers to advise delegates outside that the meeting was being called to order. Business moved slowly for many reasons. in the first place, every word uttered, starting with what Chairman Robins said, had to be translated into three languages after having been first spoken in English French, Polish and Czecho-Slovak. Mrs. Robins would talk 15 minutes. all of the conversation being taken down by Madame Somebody, French translator, who would turn to the foreign section and reel off the entire 15 minutes' speech of Mrs. Robins in exactly seven minutes, thus demonstrating the superior French speed in conversation. There were many snags at the Opening of today's proceedings. First, Chairman Robins called on the meeting to sing "The Marseillaise." This  was nuts for the French delegates. who started off just like they had been raised on it. But they sang it in French and nobody else could follow. When finally some American delegate began to supply words from an old Protestant revival hymn, the music of Which appears to have been plagiarized from the French national air. Mrs. Robins threw up her hands. She then called for "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" but there again, complications ensued because Several, including a few foreign delegates  got the thing confused with "John Brown's Body," and somebody else, probably a latent bull mooser. wanted to sing "Onward Christian Soldiers."  And still more trouble. After the committee on resolutions had brought In its report, Mrs. Robins seriously enough, and apparently without thinking how much she was upsetting orderly parliamentary procedure announced that all the resolutions submitted to the committee would he read to the conference, which meant that all of them had to be gone over in four languages. This brought Mary McArthur, secretary of the British Trade Women's league, and former labor candidate for parliament, to her feet in protest. She said the thing would never be done that way in England. And she spoke with emphasis on every word. "In England." she said, "the resolutions committee alone passes on the resolutions and only what is the committee  reports out is considered on  the floor. If you are going to listen to everything submitted to the committee this conference will be here for months instead of days doing nothing but reading resolutions." She was right, but the proceedings were in such a parliamentary knot that the translators continued to read all  the resolutions in four languages during the rest of the day. The most conspicuous of the delegates are those from France, who can be spotted by their short skirts which end at about half-way of what the surgeon calls the "upper third below the knee." And all of the delegates are not poor working girls, either. Many give signs of being merely professional friends of the working women, while others are women physicians who practice largely among the industrial populations of European cities. Men Bellhops and Waiters Get More Tips Than Women, Labor Statistics Reveal Hotel guests pay far larger tips to bellhops and waiters than to chambermaids, according to estimates of managers of 153 hotels reported in the labor review of the department of labor. The figures show that maids receive average tips of only from 11 to 88 cents a day, as compared with $1.27 to $3.78 for bellmen and from $1.16 to $3.67 for waiters. The difference makes the real income of maids less than bellmen, although the average daily rate of wages is $1.29 for the maid and 86 cents for the bellboy. The report shows that men working in hotels and restaurants outnumber women in occupations usually regarded as women's work. Of the 40,000 employees counted In those vocations, 24,000 are men. Of the cooks 9 percent are women, of the dishwashers, 40 percent are women, and of the kitchen help, 37 percent are women. A striking contrast between the wages paid men and women in the same occupation is shown by the report, which is said to be the first ever prepared on a nation-wide scale for the hotel business. Thus, 24 men cooks are paid $10 a day, while only one woman receives as much as $6 a day. The largest group of men cleaners receives $2 a day, women, $1, JAPANESE DEMAND RISE Hawaii Plantation Laborers Want 75 Per Cent Increase. HONOLULU, T. H., Dec. 20. The The demands include a raise to 95 cents a day for women laborers and leave of absence for women before and after childbirth. The list includes a demand that instead of a man having to work at least 20 days a month to be included in the bonus, the number of days be cut to 15. The laborers also want an eight-hour day, better living conditions and more amusements on the plantations, such as moving picture shows. The Inalienable Right to be  Selfish  An illustration may be found in the Oregon law limiting the hours of women's labor in laundries. That law went to the United States supreme court and was there sustained. Yet it will not be disputed that there are some women who are physically able to work without harm to themselves for more than ten hours a day in a laundry and that some of them would find it to their pleasure to do so. But there are countless other women whose health would be undermined by long hours of work. The court held that as healthy mothers are essential to vigorous offspring, the physical well-being of woman is an object of public interest and that the regulation of her hours of labor falls within the police powers of the state. The presumably inalienable right to choose the kind and manner of employment there gives way to the general need. WOMEN OF FRANCE ORGANIZE UNIONS BARRING THE MEN Important Decisions Are Taken for Guidance of Women Workers at Four-Day Paris Session. By William E. Nash Special Cable to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News (Copyright, 1920, by Chicago Daily News Co.) Paris, France, Feb. 7. A new element is coming to the fore in the French labor situation, that of unions composed entirely of women workers. "La Federation Francaise des Syndicats Professionels Feminins,"' (French Professional Women's Unions) has just finished a four days' congress at which delegates were present from every large city in France and at which important decisions were taken for the guidance of women workers. "We urge all workers of our sex to join labor unions," said the president of the federation. "I refer especially to the textile, clothing and retail commerce unions, which have already become a power in the business world. We must better the conditions under which French women labor, especially in relation to the apprenticeship of young girls and the treatment of women at the period of maternity. Wages, too, in some industries, are ridiculously low. "Unlike certain men's unions it is against our principles to take radical measures suddenly. We never present ultimatums to the employers and then stop work 10 minutes later if the demands have been refused. Only as a last resource do we resort to strikes. When women workers feel abused they appeal to the nearest women's union or federation, which makes careful study of the situation. If it decides that the petitioners are right it draws up a series of recommendations and lays them before the employer. Then his or her side of the matter is heard. If there is any national interest which forbids a change, our action is indefinitely postponed; if not or if the employer is definitely wrong, we appeal to justice in all its forms to the courts, the newspapers and public opinion. Only when justice itself refuses to intervene do we go to extremes. Political strikes we hold to be absolutely unjustifiable." The chamber of commerce in Hazelton, Pa., has formulated a plan to furnish women labor for the farmers in that territory during the coming spring and summer. The workers will be furnished at $16 a week or $50 per month, provided each rural farm owner will take a minimum of 10 for not less than a month.
Judge Goodcell Speaks.  Child and women labor legislation relative to hours, a minimum wage sale for women so that girls and women compelled to fight their own battles could earn sufficient to live upon without being forced to sacrifice their very souls had been passed. A compensation act that provided for relief of laborers when injured was enacted, and at the same time the rights and property of corporations were rigidly protected. Women's Part Considered.The national committee's sub-committee to consider the part women are to play in the government of this party held a pre-breakfast session today but failed to reach definite conclusions. Victor Heintz of Cincinnati, mid-west region director for the national committee, was commissioned to present certain views to leading republican women and to advise the sub-committee so that a definite plan may be recommended to the full national committee next Monday.  The committee is confronted with the task of harmonizing the views of two schools of thought among the women. One asks dual control of the party with parallel organization of men and women. The other said that "adequate representation" of the women on the governing bodies of the paries would be wiser. A meeting of women has been called for Sunday afternoon and all feminine delegates and alternates to the convention, as well as other leading republican women, have been invited to attend. About 300 are expected to take part in the deliberations. RESEARCH CONDUCTED IN LAW DEPARTMENT Professors Supervise Investigating of Problems; Course Offered Third Year Students. According to Prof, Dalzell such questions as “Women’s Labor Laws and How They Are Evaded,” “The Policy of the Courts in Chattel Mortgages, Conditional Sales and Lease Contracts” are some of the problems which are being investigated at the present time. In the former topic the status in Oregon will be dealt with to a great extent.
LEGAL SCHOLARSHIP AIM Students at University Urged to Do Independent Work. UNIVERSITY OF OREGON, Eugene. Oct. 16 (Special.)- That the object of the University of Oregon law school is not merely to develop lawyers but to encourage real scholarship as well, is evidenced by the research work now being done. The work is under the supervision of Professors Larremore, Warner and Dalzell. It is Intended primarily for third year students, and consists of certain problems in law. According to Professor Dalzell such topics as "Women's Labor Laws and How They Are Evaded" are among those now being studied. In this special topic the status of Oregon will be considered to a great extent. The chamber of commerce in Hazleton, Pa., has formulated a plan to furnish women labor for the farmers in that territory during the coming spring and summer. The workers will be furnished at $15 a week or $50 per month, provided each rural farm owner will take a minimum of 10 for not less than a month.  Women Labor Data Pullman, Wash. The women of Washington does 34 percent of the outdoor work on the farm, 75 percent of the housework, 26 percent of the record-keeping, and in return receives 10 percent of the money made on the farm, according to facts collected by Maude Wilson, state home demonstrator leader of the Washington State College extension service. The counties in which this survey was made were typical agricultural sections, including Spokane, Clark, Thurston and King. Following the farm wife's steps through one day during the summer would required fourteen hours of daily toil with slights more than one hour of rest, Miss Wilson's findings showed. She is a cook, seamstress, laundress, nurse, a factor in community life, and, in 26 percent of the cases, bookkeeper. She works in the dairy, the garden and in the henyard. In the winter, her work is not quite so heavy and her working day is only 12.27 hours, and she gets, on the average, 2.14 hours of rest. In Washington 28.4 percent of the farm wives get 11.4 days of vacation in the year. Japanese Women Coaling a Ship This photograph shows Japanese women laborers coaling a big passenger vessel at Nagasaki, Japan. Thousands of women are thus employed. They work in an endless chain fashion, 12 hours a day.
SILESIA TO VOTE ON REMAINING A PART OF GERMANY RYBNIK, Upper Silesia, Mar. Women laborers in mines and factories and on railroads are more numerous than men in several districts of the coal region here. Girls and boys of ten and 12 years are regularly employed, digging ditches, ballasting run-ways, pushing trucks and doing other heavy work which before the war was done only by men. This is the territory hitherto a part of Germany, but claimed now by Poland. A plebiscite, or vote of the people, soon will be held under the terms of the peace treaty of Versailles to determine whether Upper Silesia will remain German or become a part of Poland.  The German mine owners say shortage of labor and post-war economic conditions have forced women and children into this toil, which under German administration was forbidden. There is also a shortage of manpower because of the great number of soldiers from here who were killed in the war. The women engaged in the heavy work generally are Poles, distinguished by the bright shawl-like headdress, which they affect. Some of them have adopted a modification of man's apparel as better suited to their work. The correspondent saw three women of two score or more who constituted a "section gang," wearing heavy trousers under their short skirts. The majority of the women wear heavy shoes with thick wooden soles and cloth tops, all home-made. Some have heavy boots, which apparently were once the property of German soldiers.How We Know That Women Work Harder Than Men U. S. Government's Interesting Tests and Experiments to Find Out the Difference Between One "Horse Power," and One "Man-Power" and One "Woman-Power" HOUSEHOLD drudgery is hard work. Nobody denies that.  Is it as hard or harder than the physical labor that men perform? It used to be said that the average farmer "out West" was living with his second wife or with his third. He used up two or three wives during his lifetime; the women were literally worked to death. The Government States Relations Service has been making a study of these matters. It is particularly interested in finding out just how much energy is consumed in the performance of the various household tasks which the average woman is obliged to undertake.  For instance, a certain amount of energy Is consumed in taking care of a baby. How much is it? The experts had made to order a life-size model of a year-old infant a doll of wood for which an outfit of clothing was provided, including a shirt, two underskirts, a knitted jacket, socks, bootees and bonnet. A woman dressed and undressed this mannequin seven times in two hours, not in haste, but doing the job in an ordinary way. The amount of energy she expended per hour was exactly, measured. To accomplish this she was put into an airtight case the size of a small bathroom, with walls of heavy plate glass. Oxygen, supplied from a tank, kept the air fresh inside. So completely was the box, with its temporary occupant, under scrutiny, so to speak, with the help of electrical and other ingenious contrivances, that even the woman's breath was analyzed. The main problem, however, was to determine the amount of heat given off by the woman's body; for this was the exact measure of the amount of energy which, as an engine, she developed. The heat (representing energy) was measured by thermometers of extraordinary delicacy, recording the hundredth part of a degree. If the woman in the box rose from her chair, they went up a little. If she stretched out her arms, the muscular effort raised the temperature, as noted by the instruments outside, perceptibly. ; A current of cold water was kept flowing in and out of the box. The quantity of water used and its rate of flow being known, the amount of heat it absorbed and carried out of the chamber was readily ascertained, and thereby was determined just how much energy the woman's body engine developed. When the woman sat perfectly still in her chair the energy she developed was sixty-one "calories" per hour. It took that much to keep the machinery of her body running to operate her heart-pump and maintain her digestive and other vital functions.  Anybody may notice that the body of a sleeping person gives off considerable heat, which represents energy consumed in operating the vital mechanism. At death the production of energy ceases, and the body quickly turns cold.  While the woman was engaged in dressing and undressing the dummy child her output of energy, as measured by the thermometers, was eighty-five calories per hour. Hence it appeared that twenty-four calories were expended in the muscular effort which this labor demanded. A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a pint of water four degrees Fahrenheit. Thus the energy expended in dressing and undressing the wooden baby for one hour was equivalent to the amount of heat needed to raise a quart of water from freezing point to seventy degrees of the thermometer. The experts declare this to mean that baby-dressing is to be classed as "moderately heavy labor." But they confess that the test was not altogether fair, inasmuch as the dummy child weighed less than four and a half pounds, whereas a live year-old infant would weigh three or four times that much. Furthermore, it does not seem to have occurred to them to consider that a live baby, while being dressed and undressed, makes the task more difficult by constant wriggling. How many calories, one might ask, for the wriggles? Some time ago the experts were struck with the idea that it would be a good thing to know what a woman power was. They could give the figures for a horse power, and likewise for a man power, which latter they had determined by means of the sealed glass box already described. But they had no worthwhile estimate for a woman power. Was it half of a man power, three-fifths, or one-third? Nobody could say.  Now, however, they are able to answer the question, having made a series of exact measurements of energy expended under various conditions. Of course, women, according to their physical equipment, are able to develop more or less energy, just as one engine can deliver more or less power than another. It is the average woman that is here considered, as compared with the average man. The woman, when at rest, expends sixty-one calories per hour: the man, being a larger and more highly developed animal, expends 100 calories per hour while in repose. The number of calories in addition expended per hour in various degrees of muscular effort is, for the two sexes, about as follows: Woman: Moderate exercise..... 24 Vigorous exercise...... 39 Hard labor 60 Utmost exertion....... 125 Man: Moderate exercise..... 70  Vigorous exercise...... 130 Hard labor 200 Utmost exertion....... 450 This is to be accepted only as approximate. But the figures prove that a woman power is not more than one-third of a man power. Incidentally they show that the average woman is a much less efficient engine than For, while developing only one-third as much energy, she consumes, in the shape of food, four-fifths as much fuel as he does. A woman of exceptionally fine physique may be able to develop more energy than a weakly man. The conclusions drawn by the experts from their experimental tests relate not to individual instances, but to averages. If, as they find, a woman is only one third of a man power, the inference is plain that women work harder than men, relatively to the amount of energy which they, as machines, are able to develop.  They devote a greater number of hours per day to labor which, relatively to the energy they are able to produce, is properly to be classed as arduous. There is much truth in the old saying that, whereas a man's work is from sun to sun "a woman's work is never done." She has fewer hours of real rest. The labor of a woman in the home begins from the moment she gets up in the morning and starts the kitchen fire, and continues until she has undressed and put the baby to bed and then done two or three hours sewing and mending while her husband goes to the factory or the shop or the office at 7 or 8 o'clock and quits at about 5 p. m., through with his toil for the day. On Sundays and holidays he can loaf, while his wife on those days must work much as usual. If a woman is employed in a shop, factory or office she is likely to have much additional work to do at home, even though she be unmarried. Thus there can be no question of the fact that the women's labor, relatively to the energy output of which her physical engine is capable, is harder than that of the man.  To ascertain all this many, and varied and interesting tests and experiments with women were made. Dancing is moderate exercise. Tennis is vigorous exercise. When a girl plays a game of tennis she gets flushed and warm. The energy she has developed appears in the form of heat. This is exactly what happens when a woman makes any kind of muscular effort; all of the energy utilized in that way is finally converted into heat, which, in the glass box, as already explained, can be measured. A woman, put into the box, was set to work at various employments. She knitted; she hemmed handkerchiefs; she darned stockings; she swept the floor; she scrubbed the floor; she washed towels ; she ironed towels ; she washed dishes, etc. In each instance measurement was made of the amount of energy she expended.  In knitting, at twenty-three stitches a minute, her expenditure of energy was slightly greater than in crocheting, because, with the longer needles, there was more play of the hands and arms. Sewing with a running stitch involved less expenditure of energy than hemming, because the movement of drawing the thread to full length was made only once in every six stitches, or five times a minute. This observation was in line with the practical experience of needleworkers, who avoid an unnecessarily long thread as causing too much work for the arms. The woman in the box did her ironing at a rate of seventy strokes in fifty seconds, with ten seconds to change towels. She used a cold iron, because a hot one would have complicated the heat measurement.  She washed the towels without water and with an empty pail, to avoid making a slop in the box, but went through all the motions, with eighty-five short rubs in fifty seconds and ten seconds for wringing. This test of course was not wholly fair, because articles going to make up a family wash would average larger, and if wet they would be heavier. The conclusions drawn from the experiments were that ironing and dishwashing were to be classed as moderately heavy labor; that sweeping was hard work, and that washing clothes and scrubbing floors were very arduous. Sewing by hand is very light work, as measured in calories, involving little expenditure of energy.  The dishwashing test was applied with the table at various heights. When it was at the proper height for comfort the calorie output per hour was only twenty-one. When it was so high that the arms had to be raised to reach into the dishpan, the measurement showed twenty-five calories. When the woman was obliged to stoop over the pan it rose to thirty calories. These facts make it plain that the equipment of a kitchen should be made to fit the worker's height. Care of offspring cuts a large figure in the labors of most married women. Hence the experts are contemplating a comprehensive series of experiments in the measurement of energy expended in looking after living children.  If the average woman devotes eight hours to sleep, four hours to light muscular exercise, six hours to moderate work, and six hours to rest, she will be obliged in twenty-four hours to expend a total of about 1,822 calories enough, that is to say, to raise 230 gallons of water from freezing point to the scalding temperature of 182 degrees Fahrenheit. One understands, then, what the diet sharps are driving at when they tell the housewife that in the purchase of her food supplies she should take importantly into consideration the matter of calories, which represent the energy required to drive the body machine. Some foods make much better fuel than others. Sugar, fats and starches rank very high in this respect. Potatoes are rich in starch, and the cereal grains even more so. Hence it is that these foods are fattening; for fat is fuel stored in the body. A pound of butter represents 3,605 calories; $c pound of lard 4,010 calories; a pound of cheese, 2,100 calories; a pound of white bread, 1,065 calories. A pound of eggs will furnish only 265 calories. With the sealed glass box it has been ascertained just how much of a woman's energy is expended in running a sewing machine for an hour, or in the cooking of a meal. To set up a range in the box was not practicable, but all the culinary processes could be duplicated without a fire, from the peeling of potatoes to the mixing of a cake, and even to the placing of a meal upon the table.  In order that a woman may maintain her health and working capacity while accomplishing best results by her labor it is necessary that there, shall be a proper balance between the energy she expends and the energy-producing food which is chemically burned in her body. Suppose an egg to represent thirty-three calories. Then a woman would require three eggs to supply an energy equivalent for one hour's moderate labor at ironing or dishwashing. Four lumps of sugar would supply twice that much energy. But, of course, sugar is simply fuel, and contributes nothing for the making of blood and muscle. The same is true of starch. Eggs and meat, beans and peas and wheat bread contain much body-building stuff. The Government experts are doing their best to contrive means whereby women's energy may be economized rendering their work easier. They preach the merits of the small kitchen, which saves man miles of foot travel every day, and this idea of late has taken hold. Flat dwellers have learned to appreciate the labor-saving value of the small kitchen, and also the importance of having it close by the dining room. In these days a house with a basement kitchen is hard to rent. The work of the experts is by no means restricted to scientific investigation. Much of it is represented in a concrete way by useful inventions which signify a great deal in the saving of women's toil.Investigate Hours of Woman's Work Millie Trumball, secretary of the slate industrial welfare commission, was here yesterday checking up the hours and wages for women and girls employed in this city. She states that the commission is waging a campaign to enforce the state laws regulating the hours for women's labor and the wages which must be paid and that number of convictions have been secured, while many cases are pending. She states that there is a great amount of violation of the state law in this regard, mostly resulting from ignorance regarding the law on the subject. Weed Manager Says Co. Cannot Afford To Re-employ Women The Weed Lumber company cannot afford to reinstate women laborer, recently discharged, at the 33 1-3 cents an hour minimum wage, and can not take the women back unless the California Industrial Welfare commission reduces the minimum wage, said J. M. White, general manager of the Weed Lumber company, in a statement to tho Herald yesterday. This statement contradicts a recent San Francisco dispatch, quoting the commission, as follow. After a conference between the management and commission, the management decided to employ the women in complete accordance with the regulation of the commission." One of the provision is a 33 1-3 cents an hour minimum wage or $2.66 2-3 for eight hours. SOAP FACTORY JOB PAYS WAY AT BRYN MAWR Kansas City, Kan., Sept. 30. After putting in two months at Bryn Mawr college this summer, Miss Louise Beauchamp of this city is back at the soap factory, where she is a forewoman. The previous education this Kansas girl had enjoyed halted abruptly at the eight grade. She then went to work in the factory wrapping cakes of soap. She continued at it several years, until she was chosen to go to Bryn Mawr, with all expenses paid. This was part of an experiment conducted by the college authorities, women labor leaders and alumnae this year for the first time. Eighty-one factory workers in various parts of the country were given scholarships, and had every advantage of college life and education at this well-known Pennsylvania institution. Then they went back to the work they had left.WOMEN'S ACTIVITIES "When Woman, Works," a two reel film showing conditions of the woman at work all over the land, will be shown in Salem this week under the auspices of the Tri-L club, an organization of business girls. They have arranged to have it shown one day during the noon hour at the Y. W. C. A. rooms on Liberty street. It will be shown at the Oregon Thursday, October 13. It is the hope of those in charge of the showing of the film in Salem to have it exhibited at the state institutions while it is here. No definite announcement has been made regarding such exhibition, however. The film has its plot with a true to form heroine, villain and finally the hero does the regular thing for heroes to do rescues the heroine. If there is a sob it is a legitimate one, and the only thing illegitimate is the working conditions shown. The scenes were taken in one of the big factories of the country, the owner loaning his plant for the filming of the scenes. A promise of better things is given in the picture and the women's labor bureau feels that in bringing actual conditions to more favored women, a spirit of interest and helpfulness will be aroused. VOTES FOR WOMEN IN CHINA, CRY Suffragists Invade Far Eastern Republic With Fight For Equal Eights Shanghai, China, Dec. 14 Suffragists In China? In contrast to the modern Chinese flappers, with their dancing steps, bobbed hair and cigarettes, are the educated young women, many returned students, who are lighting for the freedom of the women of China. Realizing that, while a comparatively small group of Chinese girls have come in touch with western civilization, the lives of A thousands of women in the interior go on day By day as did the lives of their grand mothers, the China National Women's Federation is launching a nation wide fight for the freedom It all classes of Chinese women. The demands of the federation, published in Chinese newspapers throughout China. are as follows: 1. a men and women intellectually are equals and as women, as well as men, are under the same obligation to serve society, no educational, opportunity should be denied to women, and for the sake of convenience and economy co-education should be adopted. 2. With a view to achieving complete domestic freedom, the federation must help free the Chinese women from the yoke of their father-in-law or mother-in-law. 3. Chinese women should demand the rights of enfranchisement and participation in practical politics. 4. Prior to the abrogation of the private ownership of properties women should be entitled to equal rights of inheritance and Succession as enjoyed by men. 5. Women should be free to choose any calling or profession. 6.Women laborers must be protected. 7. Women claim the right to participate in all organized movements conducted by men.  WOMEN OUST BARBERS AND OTHERS FROM JOBS Seattle, Feb. 14. I N S) Encroachment of women in jobs formerly occupied by men is shown in a report just issued by the Seattle Chamber of Commerce. In 1920, in the State of Washington, there were 581 women barbers, hairdressers and manicurists; 48 women fishermen and oystermen; 7 women draymen, teamsters and expressmen; 5 women longshoremen; 24 women laborers in shipyards; 261 building laborers; 233 sawmill and planning mill laborers and 53 lumbermen, raftsmen and woodchoppers. WOMEN IN EMPLOYMENT. The large increase in the number of women in gainful employment as shown by the latest bulletin of the census bureau on the subject is impressively indicative of the great social change that has marked the last forty years in America.. The number jumped from 2,647,157 in 1880 to 8,549,511 in 1920. Study of the relative rate of increase by decades is interesting. The real beginning of the movement, which some sociologists allude to as the economic emancipation of women, was made in the early '80's, and in that decade the number of employed women increased by 54 percent. In the decade of the nineties the increase was but 35 percent, from 4,005,532 to 5,319,397. Thereafter it made a gain of about 51 percent in the first ten years of the present century, where it would appear that the point of approximate saturation was reached. The gain for the most recent decade has been less than 6 percent. The figures are most enlightening, in respect of the changes in the nature of women's employment which they reveal. It is true that "domestic and personal service" still constitutes the most important single classification, numerically considered, but there has been noteworthy falling off both in actual numbers and in proportion to the whole number employed. Thus there were 2,531,221 in this class in 1910, while there were only 2,186,924 in 1920. They constituted 31 percent of the whole number in the former year and only 24 percent in the latter. People still living will recall the time when practically there were but three avenues of employment open to women compelled by necessity, which was usually deplored, to work. These were teaching school, domestic service and "taking boarders." The last of these three exhibits a striking decrease in the last census. The number of women boardinghouse keepers dropped from 142,000 in 1910 to 114,170 In 1920. But the falling-off extended also to women cooks, laundresses, nursemaids and house servants generally. The heads of families who have recently wrestled with the servant problem will find their experiences confirmed in the figures of the census bureau. The readjustment appears to have been practically universal. With but a slight increase in the total number of women employed in 1920 by comparison with 1910, there are  very material changes as to details. Gains in office work, in factory employment, even apparently in farming, have been made at the expense of domestic service of practically every kind. Desertion of the last-named field, moreover, is progressive and shows no indication of being stayed by any of the remedial measures that have been seriously discussed.  It is plain from these statistics that a large part of the increase in the number of women workers has been absorbed by manufacturing, a phenomenon of the age which has created wide demand for labor, such as machine-tending, involving little or no responsibility, entailing no worries outside of work hours and, while making demands upon physical strength, offering definite hours, at the conclusion of which the worker is free to direct her life as she sees fit to do. The number of women so engaged has not, however, increased materially in a decade. The number of stenographers more than doubled, while cashiers, bookkeepers and accountants grew from 187,155 in 1910 to 359,124 in 1920. Stenography, indeed, is shown as a profession of which women very nearly have a monopoly, now outnumbering the men by more than ten to one. The census bureau does not pretend to account for this; its function is merely to set down the fact. The observer of social change, now rapidly occurring especially in the field of women's labor, will find the material for serious study in this matter-of-fact but by no means un romantic report. Women Replace Men.  Seattle, Wash. — Encroachment of women in jobs formerly occupied by men is shown in a report just issued by the Seattle chamber of commerce. In 1920, in the State of Washington, there were 581 women barbers, hair­dressers and manicurists; 48 women fishermen and oystermen; seven wom­en dairymen, teamsters and expressmen; five women longshoremen; 24 women laborers in shipyards; 261 build­ing laborers. 233 sawmill and planing mill laborers and 53 lumbermen, raftsmen and woodchoppers. Relief Work Started.  "We started the work of relief immediately. The American firms Contributed the use of their automobiles and trucks. They never saw them again, because they were completely burned up. Representative Americans, members of the Y. M. C. A., and professors of the American college, organized a central committee. Within an hour, while the automobiles were still in their possession with the Star and Stripes flying on their machines, they were all over the city administering relief. Their first effort was amongst Americans. The conduct was generous  and heroic, even under the greatest difficulties. We urged American women teachers in the girl's school of the Y. W. C. A. to leave Smyrna but they refused until driven by the flames. "These brave women labored unceasingly without food and  sleep. Some are still there."  WOMEN'S PLACE  IN SOCIAL WORK SPEAKER’S TOPIC Mrs. Trumbull Talks to Class in Ethics; Knowledge of Conditions Needed CO-ED COOPERATION ASKED Methods Used in Conservation of Laborer’s Physical Powers Discussed College women have a large place in the program of improvement of the conditions of working women, according to Mrs. Millie R. Trumbull, secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission and Child Labor board, who addressed the class in Villard hall yesterday afternoon. The first requisite, according to Mrs. Trumbull, is that the college women must understand the conditions under which the working women labor Knowing this, they can then take steps toward real social service, in encouraging the workers in the factories to better their conditions. In her talk to the class in ethics, Mrs. Trumbull emphasized the great importance of keeping the body in fit condition to do the work for which pay is received. “We must have a strong, healthy body,” said Mrs. Trumbull. "The uncertain worker is a liability to the employer. What we want to sell to our employer is our bodily strength, so when a girl goes out to take a position, one of the first things she must do is to equip her body so that it can be depended upon.” Present Conditions Discussed Discussing working conditions in factories and other places where women gather to work every day, Mrs. Trumbull pointed out some of the efforts that are being made to make working conditions more favorable to conservation of the workers’ strength and health. All of the modern factories, she said, are being built so that they occupy one story wherever possible to obtain enough ground to build in this way. Concrete floors are covered with linoleum or boards where the workers must stand. This is one of the requirements of the Oregon labor laws. When asked how, in her opinion, the working conditions for women in Oregon compare with those of other states, Mrs. Trumbull replied that she believes that, as a general thing, they are good. Consideration must be made, however, for the nature of the industry in question, she said. The Oregon employers have not been as reactionary as in other states, especially in the east and midwest, with the result that the wages have not been cut as severely here as in other sections of the United States. Last summer, for the first time, the Consumers’ league sent a working woman to Bryn Mawr, to spend the summer on the campus and study any subjects she desired. This undertaking cost the league about $1,000 and the results were quite satisfactory. Mrs. Trumbull believes that a movement should be started to send the delegate from Oregon to the University of Oregon, rather than to the eastern school, as the University offers quite as great advantages, and the added expense saved may be used perhaps in sending more than one delegate. This matter will have Mrs. Trumbull’s careful attention, and it is possible that before long some action will be taken in this direction. Interested In Child Labor Mrs. Trumbull is keenly interested in the question of laboring conditions of women and minors. She has been connected with this work in Oregon ever since the passage of the original child labor law in 1903. The commission appointed, by ex-Governor Chamberlain consisted of women, who served without pay. Incidentally, it may be said, that women were appointed for this post because they would serve without pay. Since the Child Labor board and the Industrial Welfare commission were joined together in 1917, Mrs. Trumbull has retained the office of secretary of both departments. As secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission, Mrs. Trumbull’s duty is to inspect factories and industrial plants for working conditions and payrolls for the enforcement of the minimum wage law. She has been in Eugene this week inspecting the various places where women are employed. LIFE INSURANCE LIFE insurance is one of the greatest blessings of mankind. That it has gained the approval and support of nearly all men of wisdom and prominence Ii the country is a just cause for rejoicing. No one must be very old to recall the days when a large number of people believed life insurance something which required one to die to win. Today, it is looked upon as offering an exceptional oppor­tunity for saving, as well as protecting dear ones while men and women labor to provide the necessaries of life. Delicate Gown Made for Empress Eugenie It is said that the most perishable thing ever made was the gown of Em­press Eugenie designed for her to wear at a ball given at the Tuileries upon her return from the opening of the Suez canal. The ultimate in dress was made under the personal direction of the empress. Four women labored steadily for six months embroidering the flounces. It took two months to manufacture the gauze. The cloth was woven on machinery especially constructed and was the only kind of this material ever fashioned. The threads were so fine that the weavers were obliged to wear powerful magnifying glasses. SOCIETY Urgent among the matters in the field are: Child labor, world court, uniform marriage and divorce laws, department of education, women's labor bill and vocational training.
Women Should Enter Athletics The statement that women and girls should not enter into athlete sports is a mistake. One of the main arguments against women entering athletics is that women do not need the exercise as much as the men. A close study of the problem would indicate that they do not need the exercise as much if not more than men. Why? Let us first observe the conditions under which women labor. A woman's work keeps her indoors, while man's work does not. Good, wholesome sports takes ones mind from dull routine and brings one outside of the home. Therefore, women should have this kind of exercise.CANNERY TO BE IN FULL OPERATION UNTIL 1ST OF YEAR That the Umpqua Valley Cannery will be in operation until about the first of the year, is the statement made by the manager, Mr. A. J. Geddes. The plant is now packing pears, blackberries, and prunes, and will soon start its long run on apples. The cannery this year is putting up the largest pack in its history, and so far has met with a good market demand, although the prices have not been as good as had been hoped. The greatest difficulty this year has been in the securing of enough women laborers to take care of the fruit. The large volume of pears made it necessary for the cannery to issue an urgent call for workers, and although enough hands were secured to keep the fruit from becoming a loss, there is still a shortage in the number of women employees necessary to keep the plant operating at full capacity as desired. The prune season will bring about the need for still more workers and Mr. Geddes says that many more women can be given employment. The Umpqua Valley cannery has become firmly established as a local industry, and its future growth will be an important factor in the fruit situation in this county.DEMOCRATIC PARTY MAKING READY FOR THE NEXT CAMPAIGN OLD PLATFORM RECALLED Discriminatory Difference Between White and Colored Women Laborers Is Said To Be Nearly 100%. (By The Columbian Press) Washington D.C. May 6, "We pledge the Democratic Party to cooperate with the State governments for the welfare, education, and protection of child life and all necessary safeguards against exhaustive debilitating employment conditions for women." The above paragraph is quoted from the Democratic national platform of 1924, adopted at New York, and now in the slow but sure process of resurrection for next year, when the political progeny of Wilson and Bryan again assemble to map out a new plan of government for the U.S.A. The facts, however belie the fiction (Continued From Page One) of the platform of the Democratic party. In a survey recently made of 151 South Carolina industrial plants, typical of the Democratic area, in which there were employed 10,328 white women, 843 Negro women, and 590 girls under 16 years of age - a total of 11,761 employees of the class which the Convention platform specially pledged itself to SAFEGUARD AND PROTECT, it was found that the 60-hour week and the 10-hour day were sapping away the vitality of the Democratic mothers and daughters; and that the median earnings in all types of manufacturing occupations, of white women were from $9.50 to $9.60 per 60-hour week, while the median earnings for Negro women ranged from $4.90 to $6.00 per 60-hour week, - a discriminatory difference, for the same type of labor, of from $3.60 to $4.60 per week, by median, or nearly ONE HUNDRED PERCENT. In general mercantile manufacture white women received $15.50 per week, while colored women received $6.20; in goods manufacture, whites receive $7.60, Negroes, $4.85; yarn and cotton goods brought wages to whites of $12.00 per week; while Negroes received $6.70. Of all the women whose week's earnings were recorded, 71.2 percent of the white women earned less than $12.00, while 98.4 percent of the Negro women fell below the same weekly wage. And for the same two racial groups, 86.9 percent of the white women earned less than $15.00, while 99.8 percent of the Negro women were below the "coveted" $15.00 per week. The survey report concluded with the dismaying information that "the results of extensive underpayment of large groups of women, with the lowering of the standard of living below the level not only of comfort but of health itself and the elimination of all chance of saving or providing for the future, cannot be too strongly emphasized." Thus, with the Democratic party, pledges go on forever; so do poverty, unwholesome working conditions and low wages. And these evils are what unscrupulous and ignorant voters stimulate whenever they vote into public office the political tools of southern "captains" of industry. NEW  Speed-Invention  For Ironing, that's Portable That Heats in 4 Minutes - that's as Fast as an Ordinary Electric Iron WOMEN here is a sensational new invention for ironing. Small, compact easy to carry around - slips into a kitchen drawer or closet when not in use. Yet it does all that the big costly machines will do. It operates from the wringer shaft of your Thor Washing Machine faster than anything you've seen before. It  irons the loads of flat work, that make up some 90% of the family ironing, in less than one-third the time required by hand. Don't iron by hand another day. At this amazing low price you can't afford to be without the greatest of all women's labor savers in the home. One Who Knows Tells of a  Day in a Silverton Hopyard By this time the yard had begun to wake up. Already the wire-man had let down several wires. Other workers had come and several had begun to pick. The men were in khaki trousers and over-alls; the majority of the women were dressed likewise. But there are certain characteristics that mark a woman hop picker from all other women laborers. There are the stockings, with the feet cut off, that cover the arms and wrists; the canvas gloves with their leather patches to protect the hands; the large handkerchief to prevent the throat from becoming scratched. large, light straw hat, made to fit the head by means of a shoestring drawn through at the base of the crown, covers the head. A safety pin, worn in the manner of a fraternity pin, to hold the hop checks, completes the costume. Over the front of the men's and women's clothing are. dirty brows stains.CHAPTER NAT'L. LADIES' LEAGUE IS ORGANIZED Open-mindedly, and non-partisanly, the league has studied problems of national and international importance and from time to time conducts classes in citizenship. Women voters from both republican and democratic parties are enthusiastic workers in the organization, but the League itself is strictly non-partisan. It sponsors measures, not candidates. It is unique in its no-partisanship and is intensely patriotic, upholding the Constitution and working for the welfare of the country, for the removal of legal discriminations against women by specific measures not prejudicial to women's labor laws or to social welfare legislation. LABOR PROBLEM IS NOT HELD SERIOUS Two-Thirds men Wanting Work Transients; few Local men Suffer Unemployment situation for Salem does not look so bad now as it did a week ago, according to Sim Phillips, director of the U.S. employment service office here. Phillips says there are still plenty of unemployed men, but as far as he is able to check, fully two-thirds of them are transients. Not as many local men are out of work as have been, he believes. Phillips received an emergency call yesterday for Sunday laborers for cutting and pealing piling. The past week, 120 men registered for jobs and 46 were placed, while six of the 17 women seeking work through the bureau got jobs.  Analysis of the registrations and placements shows 22 of the 65 common laborers registered went to work; one of the four carpenters got work; 14 of the 20 agricultural laborers and four of the 11 farm hands secured jobs, as did three of the eight woods laborers and two of the four watchmen. The six women who were placed included: two agricultural laborers, one laundry helper; one kitchen worker; and two hotel housekeepers. WOMAN EXHORTS MILL STRIKERS Ann Burlak, woman labor leader, is shown addressing Central Falls, R. I., textile strikers. She was arrested for her activities and later freed on bond and is shown here after returning to take command of the strike activities. Labor disorders have resulted in frequent clashed between strikers and police. WOMEN TAKE JOBS FROM MEN SAYS WORKER Cincinnati, Ohio, Not. 24 (AP) At least one woman blames women for a part of the unemployment among American men. She is Miss Mary Anderson, former immigrant and factory worker, who was here today to address the American federation of labor convention.  Miss Anderson, director of the women's bureau of the department of labor says many American fathers with children to support are jobless because women will take work paying only $4 and $5 a week, but "what," she asked, "can be done about it?" "Women don't want to take low wages," she said. "But, they have to take whatever they can get. "Women have dependents just as men have. Women have decrepit parents and helpless little brothers and sisters, too." She used figures to illustrate how women workers have increased, often to the accompaniment of wholesale discharging of men. "There were two and one-half million more women employed in 1930 than in 1920. They got one-third to one-half less pay than men were getting for the same work. "Hence, many employers, finding they could hire women for less than they were paying men, fired the men and took on more women workers. "It used to be the competition of immigrants that hurt American labor now it's the competition of women; and from women it is extending to negro men and negro women." The only way American women can raise their working standards is through organization, Miss Anderson believes, but she does not countenance the idea of a separate labor union for women. CHERRY CO-OP WORKS 2 SHIFTS ON ROYAL ANNES Two shifts for sorting Royal Anne cherries were put on yesterday at the old Southern Pacific warehouse by the Willamette Cherry Growers association putting on a monster cherry barreling deal there under supervision of Robert Shinn, manager. Each shift is working 8 hours a day. Shinn states the latter part of the month he expects to have crews on pitting the share of the pack contracted for delivery pitted. However, a considerable share of the tonnage will be shipped un-pitted. Low wages paid in the east for women's labor makes taking on a pitting job on a large scale out here a rather precarious undertaking this year with enforcement of the minimum wage scale of 27.5 cents an hour, against labor which can be secured there are $3 and $4 a week for the same work.JAPANESE GOODS BOYCOTT BEGINS Boycott on Japanese goods which was ordered recently by the Women's Labor Congress in Seattle, will go into effect in immediately following I meeting of the Women's Auxiliary of Wood Workers set for Thursday evening, according to local officials. Pearl Wright and Mrs. Naomi Michaels of this city returned Monday evening from Seattle where they attended the congress. "It is not the intention of the organisation to put people out of work in factories which manufacture silk hose." said Miss Wright Wednesday afternoon. "The factories will probably manufacture cotton, lisle end rayon hose instead of silk. Women in many other places are already wearing wool, lisle or cotton hose."  Women Oppose Equal Rights Bill Much opposition has developed against the equal rights amendment pending in congress and scheduled to be reported out by the senate judiciary committee early this week. The objections come principally from representatives of garment workers and other women's labor organizations, from the Catholic National Welfare council, the Massachusetts Women's Constitutional league, the National Women's Suffrage association and the National League of Women voters. Pauline Newman of New York representing women in textile mills denounced the proponents "with being numerically insignificant, industrially ignorant, politically highly theoretical and socially quite muddled." The measure is opposed because it might invalidate protective legislation covering women workers, such as minimum wage and maximum hour laws. Legal chaos would result in various fields in the event of the adoption of the blanket amendment providing that "women shall have equal rights with men in the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction." Another objection is that it would extend the powers of congress to legislate on matters heretofore under the jurisdiction of the states, thereby removing the protective laws for women. It is also contended that the proper way to give women equal right with men as regards control over children, property and residence is through state legislation specifically removing unjust discrimination. Shanghai Oct. 16 -(AP) Authorities estimated 450 Chinese men and women laborers drowned today when the overloaded 180-ton river vessel Hsin Taiku Maru capsized in the storm-swept Yangtze estuary 12 miles from Woosung.
450 Drowned As Chinese Vessel Sinks In Yangtze SHANGHAI, Oct. 16 (AP) Authorities estimated 450 Chinese men and women laborers drowned today when the overloaded 180-ton river vessel Hsin Taiku Maru capsized in the storm-swept Yangtze estuary 12 miles from Woosung. The only foreigners aboard, a Japanese captain, was believed lost with his ship.  Several vessels in the vicinity reported rough water made rescue attempt almost impossible. The passengers on the boat were employed in Japanese-dominated areas along both banks of the Yangtze. The German Women's Labor Service, compulsory for all unmarried girls between the ages of 18 and 23, now has 110,000 girls in uniform. They are housed in 2,000 labor camps scattered throughout Germany.
Shipbuilding Only a Part. Shipbuilding is only a part of the Clyde and the Glasgow war activities. Here are great munition plants, in which literally armies of uniformed women labor; airplane and airship factories, tank and gun and gas factories. There is no branch of war industry that cannot be found in this region of Scotland. Probably the greatest certainly the most interesting of the big plants on the Clyde is that of William Beardmore  & Co. Before the war this concern built only ships. Now, in addition to ships, it makes guns, shells, airplanes, airships and tanks. It has expanded from a pay roll that included 4800 men  to a pay roll that includes 35,000 persons, about 12,000 of whom are women.  I asked the general manager, Mr.  Campbell, of this company, if it be came necessary could his firm expand still further. "Beyond question we could," he said. "We are not near our limit yet."MUNITIONS TOILERS RECUPERATE BY TILLING FARMS LONDON, Nov. 16 (By mail.) The English girls who have toiled so hard making munitions to back the boys have not only given their time and their work, but many of them have given their most precious possession health. An interesting and successful experiment has been made in transferring groups of girls from munition factories to work on the land. The doctors had recommended that these women should get into the open air, where they would have a chance to recover their original vitality. The women's branch of the food production department has given the care of these girls special attention. So successful has the experiment been the welfare workers of these respective branches of women's labor are establishing centers on the same line so that the good work of restoring munition girls to health may be continued. The Cleveland street car strike was not the first instance of antagonism to women's labor. The street car employes of Detroit have also served notice that after a certain date, women will not be allowed to hold union membership and will not be expected to retain their jobs.
Many British Women Will Continue To Hold Jobs London, Dec. 14. (By mail) Wanted: Work for 500,000 women. The number of women who will be thrown out of work by the ending of the war is not so great as imagined. About one and a half million extra women have been employed in the United Kingdom since July, 1914, but the number of killed and disabled men amounts to about one million. Therefore there remain 500,000 women workers who will be displaced. Their displacement will come gradually and they will not be thrown on the labor market at once, for 1-3 of the increase in women's labor consists of dilutees. Until the men come back they will remain at their jobs. In the meantime many new spheres have sprung up for women. They will continue making tools and machinery, they will be employed in subsidiary ship building industries, they will do their share in the chemical trades; and also, there are two quite new branches of work open to women of the United Kingdom the manufacture of pianos and toys, both of which industries are being wrested from the hands of the Hun. The outlook for women is cheerful. The Evils of Mismating The Dalles, Or., Dec. 22. To the Editor of The Journal I believe, with "Olga," that at least the women who have any male support could and should yield their positions to returning soldiers, or try to secure lighter and less strenuous jobs. The world now acknowledges that women, for the most part, are equal to men. In the past the woman was indeed too obscure and downtrodden, but now that her fight for equality is recognized is no reason she need go to extremes and neglect wifehood and motherhood, which must be done more or less if she is to lead a public life of any kind. Too many have come to look down upon the most sacred calling of womanhood, and call it drudgery. What folly! I believe it is mainly our marriage system that sends so many women out into the world, away from home. So many are mismated, and produce restless, discontented children. It is these that are going to extremes. Let us teach children how to choose a mate carefully, not just for looks, money or position teach them to choose on their own level mentally. Let them be congenial, then wifehood, motherhood and home will come into rightful place. I see no permanent relief until congenial mating is reached. Then not only will public women laborers become less, but many other evils will also disappear, such as defective, immoral, thieving, hating, killing humanity, which will come forth no more. Schools are needed everywhere to enlighten those of marriageable ages, aa well as help those already mismated. M. CLARK. The Soldier, the Land, the Job Medford. Or., Jan. 1. To the Editor of The Journal Everyone seems determined to put the soldiers returning to their comfortable homes out on logged off lands, or on irrigation units, on some far off desert homestead. One would think the returning man at arms of the present day was the genus hobo. Why not consult him? Every man anyone knows anything about has a home and either a place in school or a job awaiting him the identical job he left to perform the duty he was born to. The women are not going to crowd him out not at all. That is not the way of women. When there is any crowding, I have noticed, it is not the man who gets shoved out. Solicitude for our returning heroes is good, but it can be run into the ground, and these logged off and irrigation propositions look like that, precisely. Has young America changed his nature, that he must be penalized to life servitude on logged off lands, now that he is on the way home? Before the war you could not have given him all the logged off land in the state, if he had been required to reside thereon in person. Is he any different now? Why not let Hero alone? Let him return to his vine, fig tree and job, and let the other fellow, who took his place, return to the looking out for a job stunt? JUNIUS. Women of Britain Wrest  Toy Making From Hun (By United Press.) LONDON, Dec. 14 (By Mail.) Wanted: Work for 500,000 women. The number of women who will be  thrown out of work by the ending of  the war is not so great as is imagined.  About one and a half million extra  women have been employed in the United Kingdom since July, 1914, but the number of killed and disabled men amounts to about one million. Therefore there remain 500,000 women workers who will be displaced. Their displacement will come gradually and they will not be thrown on the labor market at once, for 1-3 of the increase in women's labor consists of dilutees. Until the men come back they will remain at their jobs. In the meantime many new spheres have sprung up for women. They will continue making tools and machinery, they will be employed in subsidiary shipbuilding industries, they will do their share in the chemical trades; and also, there are two quite new branches of work open to women of the United Kingdom the manufacture of pianos and toys, both of which industries are being wrested from the hands of the Hun. French Women's Labor Studied. "Going to Paris, November 1. for a rest, I found a request from the United States Department of Labor for me to make an investigation of labor done by women in France, and this investigation consumed a month. Because of the letters I had I obtained everything I required from the French Government and have accumulated some interesting data for the United States Department of Labor. In England, on my return, I investigated along the same line.  Women Replace Aliens, Run London Hotels and Clubs (By United Press.) LONDON, Dec. 27. (By Mail.) There is one branch of service which  is going to make a big call on woman labor.  Hitherto one of the least exploited fields of service for women is in ho tels and clubs. Before the war this  field was monopolized by aliens, but many of them will never be permitted  to return to it, and it is certain that, hotel and club managers will avail  themselves gladly of women's labor  to meet the demand of their repleted staffs.  Even in the most conservative clubs women have replaced men so successfully during the war there is little doubt that their services will be retained, as waitresses, bookkeepers and interpreters. Several hotels have been managed entirely bv women during the war, and patrons of the hotels have declared  that they never received better service. Running a hotel is very much like running a household on a large scale,  and so women here find themselves  in a proper setting. This field will  embrace many types and many classes  of women. There are positions ranging from scullery maid to manager. OREGON SIDELIGHTS A women's labor service is to be established in Eugene, and the housewives who are yearning for kitchen help will take another lease of hope, the Register opines.WOMEN OF WORLD THANK WILSON FOR FOSTERING RIGHTS President Makes Touching Reply to French Women Who Call at Villa Murat to Greet Him. DESIRE FOR A NEW WORLD Unspoken Suffering of Heart One of Tragical Things of War Borne by Wives and Mothers. By Harry Hansen Special Cable to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News (Copyright. 1919, by Chicago Daily News Co.) Paris, Feb. 1. The question of the position of women in the various countries cannot be taken up by the peace conference because it is an internal matter and the likelihood of the conference doing anything for women depends entirely upon what it will do for labor, of which women's labor a naturally a part, and which is now made an international issue. This was the stand taken by President Wilson in an address to a delegation of 80 French women who called at the Villa Murat to express their gratitude for his share in ending the war and also to plead that he sweep aside all egotism and selfishness of peoples and not be tempted by compromises. In his extemporaneous response the president said: "In the great matter that you have so much at heart the right of women to take their full share in the government of the nation to which they belong that is necessarily a domestic question for the separate nations. A conference of peace, settling the relations of nations with each other, would be regarded as going very much outside of its province if it undertook to dictate to the several states what their internal policy should be.  ECONOMIC WAR NOW WAGED BY ENGLISH WOMEN LONDON Correspondence of the Associated Press An economic battle is being waged over the 1,500,000 unemployed women of the country who earned good wages chiefly as munitions workers during the war. Some English newspapers and commentators are asking if a sex war is one of the sinister possibilities of the future. They point out that the situation is more dangerous than when the suffragettes were wont to smash windows and terrorize the London police, because the women did not then know the full measure of their power. Since the armistice was signed it has become more and more apparent that these 1,500,000 women workers would have to return to private life so as to give opportunity of employment for returning soldiers. Hut they have not accepted the situation with good grace, and have answered the challenge of the economic condition by strong organizations, whose avowed intention is to safeguard the position of women in industry. The most important of these is Lady Rhondda's newly inaugurated Women's Industrial League, which has opened offices in London and sent organizers into all parts of the country Lady Rhodda's plans are viewed with suspicion and some measure of distrust by professional women labor leaders. Dr Marion Phillips, chief woman officer of the labor party, asserts that the agitation conducted by Lady Rhondda's league is calculated to lead to bitterness and sex strife between men and women workers. Farmerettes of Colleges Are Increasing Land Workers' Clubs Take Many Women to Country for Vacation Work. THERE is nothing like a seasoned farmerette for playing the Pied Piper and calling others after her! Sixty percent of the farmerettes of last year were college women. The steady growth of land-workers' clubs in the different colleges testify to their power of persuading their fellow students to seek an entire change from the winter's intellectual strain, by engaging in the free activities of farm life during vacation time. These college, clubs will doubtless become leading factors in recruiting women's labor for next summer. Among the colleges already boasting of such organizations may be listed: Barnard college, Goucher, Mount Holyoke, Randolph-Macon. Simmons, Smith, Sweet Briar, Wellesley, Wells college, Wheaton. Wilson, and 5 Women's college of Delaware.  The clubs are affiliating with the United States employment service, department of labor. Among Dublin Girls Futile Search for Employment Drives Many to England and Scotland for Livelihood. By Ruth Russell Special Correspondence to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News.  Dublin, Ireland. May 5. "I don't want to leave home." The little ex-fusemaker one of the 2000 girl munition-workers unemployed in Dublin stood at the new deal and chicken wire enclosure in the big whitewashed room of the woman's department of the ministry of labor in lower Abbey street "But there's no factory job in Ireland." argued the efficient young woman clerk. "Besides you can earn twice as much in England." During the war 80,000 placements of Irish boys and girls were made in munition factories in England and Scotland. In the 60 years previous to the war Ireland's population of 8,000,000 was cut in two by emigration. Will emigration continue?  "I want to stay in Dublin," repeated the girl, less decisively. "But I've been out of work, since the armistice." Out in the driving spring sleet the girl's resolution returned. Maybe, she said, the clerk did not know everything. So we bent our way to Dublin's show factory a big windowed biscuit plant where 1000 girls are employed at the highest woman's wages in Dublin, $4.50 and $10 a week. "America's factories are like this, they say. Everyone wants to get placed here. But it takes influence, because they can have their pick of girls," explained the little fusemaker when we were refused. Down a puddly, straw strewn lane we were blown by the wind to a candy factory. It was next in factory size to the biscuit plant. Dublin considers a 50 to 100 hand plant very large. At this place, too, it was possible to earn $4.50 a week, but the thumbed sign on the door read. "No hands wanted."  The girl hesitated and intertwined her fingers. "Three weeks ago a girl I knew went past the sign, and she got a job. You must be b-brassy." Up the narrow treaded wooden stairs we mounted to a big room where girls sitting sideways on a long table nailed yellow wooden candy containers together. Through a crack between the planks of the floor we could see hard red candies swirling below. As the melting sleet was pooling off our hats, the ticking aproned manager came out to splutter : "Can't you read?" A tiny ass with a flat cart that had two bundles of paper on it waited in front of the half-door of the two story paper factory in the side street where we stopped next. Burlap aproned girl sorters get from $2 a week up. But paper control has just been removed, so here as well as at a rubber factory where the wages are $1.50 to $2.55 a week we were refused help. Up in a loftlike factory where about  2O girls stuffed dolls with sawdust and I daubed red paint on their cheeks, an excited little manager told us he would lose his own job soon. The new woman's trade union wanted him to pay more than $1 a week and lessen the hours from 12 to eight. Wasn't some job better than none at all? The face of the little ammunition maker as she told me that she would meet me at the ministry of labor in the morning was puckered with indecision.  That night along Gloucester street,  past the Georgian mansions built before  the union of Ireland and England flat uprising structures from behind whose verdigrised brass trimmed doors came the murmur of many numbered tenement families I walked until I came to a shining brass plated door. "Why don't you go to England?" was the first question the matron of the working girls' home put to me when I told her I could get no work. "All the girls are." In the stone flagged cellar where the girls cook their individual suppers, a strapping tweed suited girl stood erect at a stove set deep in the stone wall. "Last time I got lonesome," she admitted as she regarded the bread she was toasting on a fork above the red coals. "But my fare's to be paid. I ll have a 44-hour week. And glass bottle workers earn from $12 to $20 a week oh, I won't get lonesome this time." Next morning at the mouth of the Saggy brick alley that leads to the applicants'  entrance at the ministry of labor I met the little fusemaker. She was coming out of the alley, and she smiled a little uncertainly as she said" "Shirt making. Seven-fifty. Edinb-burg." The "Weaker" Sex Women found, new occupations during the war, as everybody realizes. But the variety of their new employments is not so well known. An English engineer declare he can build a battleship from keel to aerial entirely with women's labor. A New York maker of airplanes planned to have them in every part of his plant, from drafting room to assembling shop. From The Nation's Business for June. Women Vote for League of Nations As Basis of Peace Centralia. June 20. The Washington State Federation of Women's Clubs, holding its twenty-third annual convention here, "Thursday adopted a resolution, favoring a League of Nations or any means to secure world-wide peace, based on principles of justice. Other resolutions indorsed an educational bureau for the social morality campaign, being conducted by the government, the establishment by congress of a permanent women's labor bureau, a movement to secure equal pay for equal work, a movement to limit the price of food to a reasonable profit, the discouragement of extravagant dress for women in schools and stores and on the streets, the Smith-Hoke-Towner bill providing for a secretary of education in the president's cabinet, and a raise in the minimum wage for women. WOMEN STIMULATE INTEREST Tirelessly these women labored to interest the farmers in the new venture and to obtain knowledge of the best methods for handling the crop. Naturally, discouragements were met, and some methods were put in the discard, but at last a practical working system was found and Oregon proved to the world her ability to grow flax equal to the best in Belgium. The fibre bureau of the department of agriculture sent for Mr. Loppens, a Belgian expert who had invented tanks for the retting of flax which could be used in districts where the straw could not be river retted. The fibre bureau announced that they sent for this noted man to teach Oregon the tank system because convinced the efforts of the women of Oregon would eventually result in developing a great industry in this great state of the West. Europe was quick to recognize the superior quality of the Oregon grown fibre, and sent many requests for shipments, but the money market was still tight and not enough could be raised to finance production on a large scale. GOMPERS CRITICIZES CHARTER GIVEN LABOR Greater Rights Asked in Peace Treaty Provision. HUNS DISPUTE ARGUMENT American Leader at Trades Union Conference Pleads for Equality of Women and Men. AMSTERDAM, Aug. 4. (By the Associated Press.) Samuel Gompers, president of the American Federation of Labor, and head of the American council to the international trades union federation in session here, pleaded for greater rights for labor Sunday. His address followed the report of a committee which said it could not accept the charter given labor in the peace treaty as a full expression of the workers' demands. Mr. Gompers demanded that labor should not be regarded as an article of commerce. He urged also that a seamen's act be enacted to permit sailors to leave ships when they were safely in harbor. He pleaded for the equality of women and men, and abolition of involuntary services. German delegates disputed Mr. Gompers' argument, which, thev said, made it appear European labor unions were too conservative. They demanded that the workers strive for a realization of The Berne conference's programme, including regulation of children's education, women's labor, shorter hours. Sunday rest and supervision of home industries. WASHINGTON Every one of the 80 election officials named to conduct the special bonding election at Aberdeen on August 26 are women. Labor shortage precludes use of man.WELFARE BODY NOT BOUND Acceptance of Conference Findings on Women's Labor Discretional. SALEM, Or., Aug. 14. (Special.) The Oregon Industrial Welfare commission is not bound by the recommendations of any conference with regard to hours of labor, wording conditions and compensation for women, according to a legal opinion given today by I. H. Vanwinkle, assistant attorney-general. The opinion was asked by Mrs. Trumbull, secretary of the industrial welfare commission. following recommendations of a recent conference in Portland that a 48-hour week and maximum nine-hour work day for women be established. The assistant attorney-general holds that acceptance of these recommendations are discretional with the welfare commission. Women From All Over Meet in Paris These Days - U. S. Well Represented Paris, June 20 (by mail) Women have been in Paris these last few months from all countries on all missions. So perhaps no one should have commented on the purposes which brought Mary Anderson here from Chicago and Rose Schneiderman with her from New York. But there was something "different" about these two American women that made them stand out from the jumble of diplomatic women, royalty, writers, war workers, women investigators women with missions all of them, Paris is full of them they make Paris one is tempted to believe. These two are simple, straightforward, jolly, informal, business women. They wore no uniforms, not even a badge or ribbon of decoration. And they stayed only a short time. Indeed they must be several weeks back in America now. They came to Paris for one purpose; to represent the women's labor party of America in the peace conference. Their object was to see that women laborers the world over who had had such a big part in winning the war, be given a fair representation in the peace document that ended the war. They saw officials and committees, attended meetings and conferences. They consulted with labor leaders from all the allied countries. They did not stir without a couple of interpreters, for they encountered a different language with every interview. They were given hearings before august bodies and before small groups of political potentates. They were especially interested in getting the viewpoint of women - women from England where they stopped both going and coming, and women of France, and women from America. It was their American friends who brought them to the Hotel Petrograd, the Paris hotel for American women war workers maintained by the Y. W. C. A. Here they met Mary Dingman, the Y. W. C. A's director of industrial work with French women. At once there was a great deal the three had to talk about. Miss Dingman took them to the munition factories, now changing from their munition making status to peace time industries that include everything from ribbon making to sausage manufacturing. In the munition centers the Y. W. C. A, has had clubs for the women during war times and these clubs are still going on for the same women as they turn to the peace occupations. They addressed some of thee French working women groups, at the Y. W. C. A.'s clubs, telling them the history and aims of the women's trades unions in America. Their remarks were translated to their audiences and the questions of their audiences translated back to them. One noon they went to the biggest of the association's Paris clubs. The members are clerks in the business houses and stores of the neighborhood and they came in hundreds to the little club. Miss Anderson and Miss Schneiderman couldn't talk with the girls so they danced with them. Afterwards they told them that they came from the business women of America in the interests of working women of every country. WOMEN DELIBERATE IN FOUR LANGUAGES International Conference Goes Unsteadily Forward. EVEN MUSIC HANDICAPPED Gathering Shows Tendency to Drift and to Forget - French   Delegates Are Most Conspicuous. OREGONIAN NEWS BUREAU. Washington, Nov. 1. After reviewing the receptions to the king and queen of the Belgians during the week and following government officials and labor leaders around for several days, one naturally looks for relaxation. It Is to be had at the auditorium of the National museum, where women labor delegates from more than 20 different countries are doing Business in four languages. The meeting, which is called an international conference of working women, convened yesterday, but there have been many delays in getting down to business. First, the women delegates never arrive on time. Next, Mrs. Raymond Robins, wealthy Chicago society woman, who is chairman of this working women's conference. In her good nature, sometimes forgets where the conference is drifting. All of yesterday's session was taken up with debates on the eight-hour day. until suddenly Mlle. Georgette Bouillot, a French delegate, arose and reminded the chairman that there was no eight-hour question before the conference, the resolutions committee not having brought in its report. Mrs. Robins admitted that the French delegate was correct and the conference adjourned that the delegates might have tea at the Fine Arts club. The gathering was to meet again this afternoon at 2 o'clock but the larger number of the delegates got to enjoying themselves in conversation in the outer museum And at 2:30 Mrs. Robins ordered the  ushers to advise delegates outside that the meeting was being called to order. Business moved slowly for many reasons. in the first place, every word uttered, starting with what Chairman Robins said, had to be translated into three languages after having been first spoken in English French, Polish and Czecho-Slovak. Mrs. Robins would talk 15 minutes. all of the conversation being taken down by Madame Somebody, French translator, who would turn to the foreign section and reel off the entire 15 minutes' speech of Mrs. Robins in exactly seven minutes, thus demonstrating the superior French speed in conversation. There were many snags at the Opening of today's proceedings. First, Chairman Robins called on the meeting to sing "The Marseillaise." This  was nuts for the French delegates. who started off just like they had been raised on it. But they sang it in French and nobody else could follow. When finally some American delegate began to supply words from an old Protestant revival hymn, the music of Which appears to have been plagiarized from the French national air. Mrs. Robins threw up her hands. She then called for "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" but there again, complications ensued because Several, including a few foreign delegates  got the thing confused with "John Brown's Body," and somebody else, probably a latent bull mooser. wanted to sing "Onward Christian Soldiers."  And still more trouble. After the committee on resolutions had brought In its report, Mrs. Robins seriously enough, and apparently without thinking how much she was upsetting orderly parliamentary procedure announced that all the resolutions submitted to the committee would he read to the conference, which meant that all of them had to be gone over in four languages. This brought Mary McArthur, secretary of the British Trade Women's league, and former labor candidate for parliament, to her feet in protest. She said the thing would never be done that way in England. And she spoke with emphasis on every word. "In England." she said, "the resolutions committee alone passes on the resolutions and only what is the committee  reports out is considered on  the floor. If you are going to listen to everything submitted to the committee this conference will be here for months instead of days doing nothing but reading resolutions." She was right, but the proceedings were in such a parliamentary knot that the translators continued to read all  the resolutions in four languages during the rest of the day. The most conspicuous of the delegates are those from France, who can be spotted by their short skirts which end at about half-way of what the surgeon calls the "upper third below the knee." And all of the delegates are not poor working girls, either. Many give signs of being merely professional friends of the working women, while others are women physicians who practice largely among the industrial populations of European cities. Men Bellhops and Waiters Get More Tips Than Women, Labor Statistics Reveal Hotel guests pay far larger tips to bellhops and waiters than to chambermaids, according to estimates of managers of 153 hotels reported in the labor review of the department of labor. The figures show that maids receive average tips of only from 11 to 88 cents a day, as compared with $1.27 to $3.78 for bellmen and from $1.16 to $3.67 for waiters. The difference makes the real income of maids less than bellmen, although the average daily rate of wages is $1.29 for the maid and 86 cents for the bellboy. The report shows that men working in hotels and restaurants outnumber women in occupations usually regarded as women's work. Of the 40,000 employees counted In those vocations, 24,000 are men. Of the cooks 9 percent are women, of the dishwashers, 40 percent are women, and of the kitchen help, 37 percent are women. A striking contrast between the wages paid men and women in the same occupation is shown by the report, which is said to be the first ever prepared on a nation-wide scale for the hotel business. Thus, 24 men cooks are paid $10 a day, while only one woman receives as much as $6 a day. The largest group of men cleaners receives $2 a day, women, $1, JAPANESE DEMAND RISE Hawaii Plantation Laborers Want 75 Per Cent Increase. HONOLULU, T. H., Dec. 20. The The demands include a raise to 95 cents a day for women laborers and leave of absence for women before and after childbirth. The list includes a demand that instead of a man having to work at least 20 days a month to be included in the bonus, the number of days be cut to 15. The laborers also want an eight-hour day, better living conditions and more amusements on the plantations, such as moving picture shows. The Inalienable Right to be  Selfish  An illustration may be found in the Oregon law limiting the hours of women's labor in laundries. That law went to the United States supreme court and was there sustained. Yet it will not be disputed that there are some women who are physically able to work without harm to themselves for more than ten hours a day in a laundry and that some of them would find it to their pleasure to do so. But there are countless other women whose health would be undermined by long hours of work. The court held that as healthy mothers are essential to vigorous offspring, the physical well-being of woman is an object of public interest and that the regulation of her hours of labor falls within the police powers of the state. The presumably inalienable right to choose the kind and manner of employment there gives way to the general need. WOMEN OF FRANCE ORGANIZE UNIONS BARRING THE MEN Important Decisions Are Taken for Guidance of Women Workers at Four-Day Paris Session. By William E. Nash Special Cable to The Journal and The Chicago Daily News (Copyright, 1920, by Chicago Daily News Co.) Paris, France, Feb. 7. A new element is coming to the fore in the French labor situation, that of unions composed entirely of women workers. "La Federation Francaise des Syndicats Professionels Feminins,"' (French Professional Women's Unions) has just finished a four days' congress at which delegates were present from every large city in France and at which important decisions were taken for the guidance of women workers. "We urge all workers of our sex to join labor unions," said the president of the federation. "I refer especially to the textile, clothing and retail commerce unions, which have already become a power in the business world. We must better the conditions under which French women labor, especially in relation to the apprenticeship of young girls and the treatment of women at the period of maternity. Wages, too, in some industries, are ridiculously low. "Unlike certain men's unions it is against our principles to take radical measures suddenly. We never present ultimatums to the employers and then stop work 10 minutes later if the demands have been refused. Only as a last resource do we resort to strikes. When women workers feel abused they appeal to the nearest women's union or federation, which makes careful study of the situation. If it decides that the petitioners are right it draws up a series of recommendations and lays them before the employer. Then his or her side of the matter is heard. If there is any national interest which forbids a change, our action is indefinitely postponed; if not or if the employer is definitely wrong, we appeal to justice in all its forms to the courts, the newspapers and public opinion. Only when justice itself refuses to intervene do we go to extremes. Political strikes we hold to be absolutely unjustifiable." The chamber of commerce in Hazelton, Pa., has formulated a plan to furnish women labor for the farmers in that territory during the coming spring and summer. The workers will be furnished at $16 a week or $50 per month, provided each rural farm owner will take a minimum of 10 for not less than a month.
Judge Goodcell Speaks.  Child and women labor legislation relative to hours, a minimum wage sale for women so that girls and women compelled to fight their own battles could earn sufficient to live upon without being forced to sacrifice their very souls had been passed. A compensation act that provided for relief of laborers when injured was enacted, and at the same time the rights and property of corporations were rigidly protected. Women's Part Considered.The national committee's sub-committee to consider the part women are to play in the government of this party held a pre-breakfast session today but failed to reach definite conclusions. Victor Heintz of Cincinnati, mid-west region director for the national committee, was commissioned to present certain views to leading republican women and to advise the sub-committee so that a definite plan may be recommended to the full national committee next Monday.  The committee is confronted with the task of harmonizing the views of two schools of thought among the women. One asks dual control of the party with parallel organization of men and women. The other said that "adequate representation" of the women on the governing bodies of the paries would be wiser. A meeting of women has been called for Sunday afternoon and all feminine delegates and alternates to the convention, as well as other leading republican women, have been invited to attend. About 300 are expected to take part in the deliberations. RESEARCH CONDUCTED IN LAW DEPARTMENT Professors Supervise Investigating of Problems; Course Offered Third Year Students. According to Prof, Dalzell such questions as “Women’s Labor Laws and How They Are Evaded,” “The Policy of the Courts in Chattel Mortgages, Conditional Sales and Lease Contracts” are some of the problems which are being investigated at the present time. In the former topic the status in Oregon will be dealt with to a great extent.
LEGAL SCHOLARSHIP AIM Students at University Urged to Do Independent Work. UNIVERSITY OF OREGON, Eugene. Oct. 16 (Special.)- That the object of the University of Oregon law school is not merely to develop lawyers but to encourage real scholarship as well, is evidenced by the research work now being done. The work is under the supervision of Professors Larremore, Warner and Dalzell. It is Intended primarily for third year students, and consists of certain problems in law. According to Professor Dalzell such topics as "Women's Labor Laws and How They Are Evaded" are among those now being studied. In this special topic the status of Oregon will be considered to a great extent. The chamber of commerce in Hazleton, Pa., has formulated a plan to furnish women labor for the farmers in that territory during the coming spring and summer. The workers will be furnished at $15 a week or $50 per month, provided each rural farm owner will take a minimum of 10 for not less than a month.  Women Labor Data Pullman, Wash. The women of Washington does 34 percent of the outdoor work on the farm, 75 percent of the housework, 26 percent of the record-keeping, and in return receives 10 percent of the money made on the farm, according to facts collected by Maude Wilson, state home demonstrator leader of the Washington State College extension service. The counties in which this survey was made were typical agricultural sections, including Spokane, Clark, Thurston and King. Following the farm wife's steps through one day during the summer would required fourteen hours of daily toil with slights more than one hour of rest, Miss Wilson's findings showed. She is a cook, seamstress, laundress, nurse, a factor in community life, and, in 26 percent of the cases, bookkeeper. She works in the dairy, the garden and in the henyard. In the winter, her work is not quite so heavy and her working day is only 12.27 hours, and she gets, on the average, 2.14 hours of rest. In Washington 28.4 percent of the farm wives get 11.4 days of vacation in the year. Japanese Women Coaling a Ship This photograph shows Japanese women laborers coaling a big passenger vessel at Nagasaki, Japan. Thousands of women are thus employed. They work in an endless chain fashion, 12 hours a day.
SILESIA TO VOTE ON REMAINING A PART OF GERMANY RYBNIK, Upper Silesia, Mar. Women laborers in mines and factories and on railroads are more numerous than men in several districts of the coal region here. Girls and boys of ten and 12 years are regularly employed, digging ditches, ballasting run-ways, pushing trucks and doing other heavy work which before the war was done only by men. This is the territory hitherto a part of Germany, but claimed now by Poland. A plebiscite, or vote of the people, soon will be held under the terms of the peace treaty of Versailles to determine whether Upper Silesia will remain German or become a part of Poland.  The German mine owners say shortage of labor and post-war economic conditions have forced women and children into this toil, which under German administration was forbidden. There is also a shortage of manpower because of the great number of soldiers from here who were killed in the war. The women engaged in the heavy work generally are Poles, distinguished by the bright shawl-like headdress, which they affect. Some of them have adopted a modification of man's apparel as better suited to their work. The correspondent saw three women of two score or more who constituted a "section gang," wearing heavy trousers under their short skirts. The majority of the women wear heavy shoes with thick wooden soles and cloth tops, all home-made. Some have heavy boots, which apparently were once the property of German soldiers.How We Know That Women Work Harder Than Men U. S. Government's Interesting Tests and Experiments to Find Out the Difference Between One "Horse Power," and One "Man-Power" and One "Woman-Power" HOUSEHOLD drudgery is hard work. Nobody denies that.  Is it as hard or harder than the physical labor that men perform? It used to be said that the average farmer "out West" was living with his second wife or with his third. He used up two or three wives during his lifetime; the women were literally worked to death. The Government States Relations Service has been making a study of these matters. It is particularly interested in finding out just how much energy is consumed in the performance of the various household tasks which the average woman is obliged to undertake.  For instance, a certain amount of energy Is consumed in taking care of a baby. How much is it? The experts had made to order a life-size model of a year-old infant a doll of wood for which an outfit of clothing was provided, including a shirt, two underskirts, a knitted jacket, socks, bootees and bonnet. A woman dressed and undressed this mannequin seven times in two hours, not in haste, but doing the job in an ordinary way. The amount of energy she expended per hour was exactly, measured. To accomplish this she was put into an airtight case the size of a small bathroom, with walls of heavy plate glass. Oxygen, supplied from a tank, kept the air fresh inside. So completely was the box, with its temporary occupant, under scrutiny, so to speak, with the help of electrical and other ingenious contrivances, that even the woman's breath was analyzed. The main problem, however, was to determine the amount of heat given off by the woman's body; for this was the exact measure of the amount of energy which, as an engine, she developed. The heat (representing energy) was measured by thermometers of extraordinary delicacy, recording the hundredth part of a degree. If the woman in the box rose from her chair, they went up a little. If she stretched out her arms, the muscular effort raised the temperature, as noted by the instruments outside, perceptibly. ; A current of cold water was kept flowing in and out of the box. The quantity of water used and its rate of flow being known, the amount of heat it absorbed and carried out of the chamber was readily ascertained, and thereby was determined just how much energy the woman's body engine developed. When the woman sat perfectly still in her chair the energy she developed was sixty-one "calories" per hour. It took that much to keep the machinery of her body running to operate her heart-pump and maintain her digestive and other vital functions.  Anybody may notice that the body of a sleeping person gives off considerable heat, which represents energy consumed in operating the vital mechanism. At death the production of energy ceases, and the body quickly turns cold.  While the woman was engaged in dressing and undressing the dummy child her output of energy, as measured by the thermometers, was eighty-five calories per hour. Hence it appeared that twenty-four calories were expended in the muscular effort which this labor demanded. A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a pint of water four degrees Fahrenheit. Thus the energy expended in dressing and undressing the wooden baby for one hour was equivalent to the amount of heat needed to raise a quart of water from freezing point to seventy degrees of the thermometer. The experts declare this to mean that baby-dressing is to be classed as "moderately heavy labor." But they confess that the test was not altogether fair, inasmuch as the dummy child weighed less than four and a half pounds, whereas a live year-old infant would weigh three or four times that much. Furthermore, it does not seem to have occurred to them to consider that a live baby, while being dressed and undressed, makes the task more difficult by constant wriggling. How many calories, one might ask, for the wriggles? Some time ago the experts were struck with the idea that it would be a good thing to know what a woman power was. They could give the figures for a horse power, and likewise for a man power, which latter they had determined by means of the sealed glass box already described. But they had no worthwhile estimate for a woman power. Was it half of a man power, three-fifths, or one-third? Nobody could say.  Now, however, they are able to answer the question, having made a series of exact measurements of energy expended under various conditions. Of course, women, according to their physical equipment, are able to develop more or less energy, just as one engine can deliver more or less power than another. It is the average woman that is here considered, as compared with the average man. The woman, when at rest, expends sixty-one calories per hour: the man, being a larger and more highly developed animal, expends 100 calories per hour while in repose. The number of calories in addition expended per hour in various degrees of muscular effort is, for the two sexes, about as follows: Woman: Moderate exercise..... 24 Vigorous exercise...... 39 Hard labor 60 Utmost exertion....... 125 Man: Moderate exercise..... 70  Vigorous exercise...... 130 Hard labor 200 Utmost exertion....... 450 This is to be accepted only as approximate. But the figures prove that a woman power is not more than one-third of a man power. Incidentally they show that the average woman is a much less efficient engine than For, while developing only one-third as much energy, she consumes, in the shape of food, four-fifths as much fuel as he does. A woman of exceptionally fine physique may be able to develop more energy than a weakly man. The conclusions drawn by the experts from their experimental tests relate not to individual instances, but to averages. If, as they find, a woman is only one third of a man power, the inference is plain that women work harder than men, relatively to the amount of energy which they, as machines, are able to develop.  They devote a greater number of hours per day to labor which, relatively to the energy they are able to produce, is properly to be classed as arduous. There is much truth in the old saying that, whereas a man's work is from sun to sun "a woman's work is never done." She has fewer hours of real rest. The labor of a woman in the home begins from the moment she gets up in the morning and starts the kitchen fire, and continues until she has undressed and put the baby to bed and then done two or three hours sewing and mending while her husband goes to the factory or the shop or the office at 7 or 8 o'clock and quits at about 5 p. m., through with his toil for the day. On Sundays and holidays he can loaf, while his wife on those days must work much as usual. If a woman is employed in a shop, factory or office she is likely to have much additional work to do at home, even though she be unmarried. Thus there can be no question of the fact that the women's labor, relatively to the energy output of which her physical engine is capable, is harder than that of the man.  To ascertain all this many, and varied and interesting tests and experiments with women were made. Dancing is moderate exercise. Tennis is vigorous exercise. When a girl plays a game of tennis she gets flushed and warm. The energy she has developed appears in the form of heat. This is exactly what happens when a woman makes any kind of muscular effort; all of the energy utilized in that way is finally converted into heat, which, in the glass box, as already explained, can be measured. A woman, put into the box, was set to work at various employments. She knitted; she hemmed handkerchiefs; she darned stockings; she swept the floor; she scrubbed the floor; she washed towels ; she ironed towels ; she washed dishes, etc. In each instance measurement was made of the amount of energy she expended.  In knitting, at twenty-three stitches a minute, her expenditure of energy was slightly greater than in crocheting, because, with the longer needles, there was more play of the hands and arms. Sewing with a running stitch involved less expenditure of energy than hemming, because the movement of drawing the thread to full length was made only once in every six stitches, or five times a minute. This observation was in line with the practical experience of needleworkers, who avoid an unnecessarily long thread as causing too much work for the arms. The woman in the box did her ironing at a rate of seventy strokes in fifty seconds, with ten seconds to change towels. She used a cold iron, because a hot one would have complicated the heat measurement.  She washed the towels without water and with an empty pail, to avoid making a slop in the box, but went through all the motions, with eighty-five short rubs in fifty seconds and ten seconds for wringing. This test of course was not wholly fair, because articles going to make up a family wash would average larger, and if wet they would be heavier. The conclusions drawn from the experiments were that ironing and dishwashing were to be classed as moderately heavy labor; that sweeping was hard work, and that washing clothes and scrubbing floors were very arduous. Sewing by hand is very light work, as measured in calories, involving little expenditure of energy.  The dishwashing test was applied with the table at various heights. When it was at the proper height for comfort the calorie output per hour was only twenty-one. When it was so high that the arms had to be raised to reach into the dishpan, the measurement showed twenty-five calories. When the woman was obliged to stoop over the pan it rose to thirty calories. These facts make it plain that the equipment of a kitchen should be made to fit the worker's height. Care of offspring cuts a large figure in the labors of most married women. Hence the experts are contemplating a comprehensive series of experiments in the measurement of energy expended in looking after living children.  If the average woman devotes eight hours to sleep, four hours to light muscular exercise, six hours to moderate work, and six hours to rest, she will be obliged in twenty-four hours to expend a total of about 1,822 calories enough, that is to say, to raise 230 gallons of water from freezing point to the scalding temperature of 182 degrees Fahrenheit. One understands, then, what the diet sharps are driving at when they tell the housewife that in the purchase of her food supplies she should take importantly into consideration the matter of calories, which represent the energy required to drive the body machine. Some foods make much better fuel than others. Sugar, fats and starches rank very high in this respect. Potatoes are rich in starch, and the cereal grains even more so. Hence it is that these foods are fattening; for fat is fuel stored in the body. A pound of butter represents 3,605 calories; $c pound of lard 4,010 calories; a pound of cheese, 2,100 calories; a pound of white bread, 1,065 calories. A pound of eggs will furnish only 265 calories. With the sealed glass box it has been ascertained just how much of a woman's energy is expended in running a sewing machine for an hour, or in the cooking of a meal. To set up a range in the box was not practicable, but all the culinary processes could be duplicated without a fire, from the peeling of potatoes to the mixing of a cake, and even to the placing of a meal upon the table.  In order that a woman may maintain her health and working capacity while accomplishing best results by her labor it is necessary that there, shall be a proper balance between the energy she expends and the energy-producing food which is chemically burned in her body. Suppose an egg to represent thirty-three calories. Then a woman would require three eggs to supply an energy equivalent for one hour's moderate labor at ironing or dishwashing. Four lumps of sugar would supply twice that much energy. But, of course, sugar is simply fuel, and contributes nothing for the making of blood and muscle. The same is true of starch. Eggs and meat, beans and peas and wheat bread contain much body-building stuff. The Government experts are doing their best to contrive means whereby women's energy may be economized rendering their work easier. They preach the merits of the small kitchen, which saves man miles of foot travel every day, and this idea of late has taken hold. Flat dwellers have learned to appreciate the labor-saving value of the small kitchen, and also the importance of having it close by the dining room. In these days a house with a basement kitchen is hard to rent. The work of the experts is by no means restricted to scientific investigation. Much of it is represented in a concrete way by useful inventions which signify a great deal in the saving of women's toil.Investigate Hours of Woman's Work Millie Trumball, secretary of the slate industrial welfare commission, was here yesterday checking up the hours and wages for women and girls employed in this city. She states that the commission is waging a campaign to enforce the state laws regulating the hours for women's labor and the wages which must be paid and that number of convictions have been secured, while many cases are pending. She states that there is a great amount of violation of the state law in this regard, mostly resulting from ignorance regarding the law on the subject. Weed Manager Says Co. Cannot Afford To Re-employ Women The Weed Lumber company cannot afford to reinstate women laborer, recently discharged, at the 33 1-3 cents an hour minimum wage, and can not take the women back unless the California Industrial Welfare commission reduces the minimum wage, said J. M. White, general manager of the Weed Lumber company, in a statement to tho Herald yesterday. This statement contradicts a recent San Francisco dispatch, quoting the commission, as follow. After a conference between the management and commission, the management decided to employ the women in complete accordance with the regulation of the commission." One of the provision is a 33 1-3 cents an hour minimum wage or $2.66 2-3 for eight hours. SOAP FACTORY JOB PAYS WAY AT BRYN MAWR Kansas City, Kan., Sept. 30. After putting in two months at Bryn Mawr college this summer, Miss Louise Beauchamp of this city is back at the soap factory, where she is a forewoman. The previous education this Kansas girl had enjoyed halted abruptly at the eight grade. She then went to work in the factory wrapping cakes of soap. She continued at it several years, until she was chosen to go to Bryn Mawr, with all expenses paid. This was part of an experiment conducted by the college authorities, women labor leaders and alumnae this year for the first time. Eighty-one factory workers in various parts of the country were given scholarships, and had every advantage of college life and education at this well-known Pennsylvania institution. Then they went back to the work they had left.WOMEN'S ACTIVITIES "When Woman, Works," a two reel film showing conditions of the woman at work all over the land, will be shown in Salem this week under the auspices of the Tri-L club, an organization of business girls. They have arranged to have it shown one day during the noon hour at the Y. W. C. A. rooms on Liberty street. It will be shown at the Oregon Thursday, October 13. It is the hope of those in charge of the showing of the film in Salem to have it exhibited at the state institutions while it is here. No definite announcement has been made regarding such exhibition, however. The film has its plot with a true to form heroine, villain and finally the hero does the regular thing for heroes to do rescues the heroine. If there is a sob it is a legitimate one, and the only thing illegitimate is the working conditions shown. The scenes were taken in one of the big factories of the country, the owner loaning his plant for the filming of the scenes. A promise of better things is given in the picture and the women's labor bureau feels that in bringing actual conditions to more favored women, a spirit of interest and helpfulness will be aroused. VOTES FOR WOMEN IN CHINA, CRY Suffragists Invade Far Eastern Republic With Fight For Equal Eights Shanghai, China, Dec. 14 Suffragists In China? In contrast to the modern Chinese flappers, with their dancing steps, bobbed hair and cigarettes, are the educated young women, many returned students, who are lighting for the freedom of the women of China. Realizing that, while a comparatively small group of Chinese girls have come in touch with western civilization, the lives of A thousands of women in the interior go on day By day as did the lives of their grand mothers, the China National Women's Federation is launching a nation wide fight for the freedom It all classes of Chinese women. The demands of the federation, published in Chinese newspapers throughout China. are as follows: 1. a men and women intellectually are equals and as women, as well as men, are under the same obligation to serve society, no educational, opportunity should be denied to women, and for the sake of convenience and economy co-education should be adopted. 2. With a view to achieving complete domestic freedom, the federation must help free the Chinese women from the yoke of their father-in-law or mother-in-law. 3. Chinese women should demand the rights of enfranchisement and participation in practical politics. 4. Prior to the abrogation of the private ownership of properties women should be entitled to equal rights of inheritance and Succession as enjoyed by men. 5. Women should be free to choose any calling or profession. 6.Women laborers must be protected. 7. Women claim the right to participate in all organized movements conducted by men.  WOMEN OUST BARBERS AND OTHERS FROM JOBS Seattle, Feb. 14. I N S) Encroachment of women in jobs formerly occupied by men is shown in a report just issued by the Seattle Chamber of Commerce. In 1920, in the State of Washington, there were 581 women barbers, hairdressers and manicurists; 48 women fishermen and oystermen; 7 women draymen, teamsters and expressmen; 5 women longshoremen; 24 women laborers in shipyards; 261 building laborers; 233 sawmill and planning mill laborers and 53 lumbermen, raftsmen and woodchoppers. WOMEN IN EMPLOYMENT. The large increase in the number of women in gainful employment as shown by the latest bulletin of the census bureau on the subject is impressively indicative of the great social change that has marked the last forty years in America.. The number jumped from 2,647,157 in 1880 to 8,549,511 in 1920. Study of the relative rate of increase by decades is interesting. The real beginning of the movement, which some sociologists allude to as the economic emancipation of women, was made in the early '80's, and in that decade the number of employed women increased by 54 percent. In the decade of the nineties the increase was but 35 percent, from 4,005,532 to 5,319,397. Thereafter it made a gain of about 51 percent in the first ten years of the present century, where it would appear that the point of approximate saturation was reached. The gain for the most recent decade has been less than 6 percent. The figures are most enlightening, in respect of the changes in the nature of women's employment which they reveal. It is true that "domestic and personal service" still constitutes the most important single classification, numerically considered, but there has been noteworthy falling off both in actual numbers and in proportion to the whole number employed. Thus there were 2,531,221 in this class in 1910, while there were only 2,186,924 in 1920. They constituted 31 percent of the whole number in the former year and only 24 percent in the latter. People still living will recall the time when practically there were but three avenues of employment open to women compelled by necessity, which was usually deplored, to work. These were teaching school, domestic service and "taking boarders." The last of these three exhibits a striking decrease in the last census. The number of women boardinghouse keepers dropped from 142,000 in 1910 to 114,170 In 1920. But the falling-off extended also to women cooks, laundresses, nursemaids and house servants generally. The heads of families who have recently wrestled with the servant problem will find their experiences confirmed in the figures of the census bureau. The readjustment appears to have been practically universal. With but a slight increase in the total number of women employed in 1920 by comparison with 1910, there are  very material changes as to details. Gains in office work, in factory employment, even apparently in farming, have been made at the expense of domestic service of practically every kind. Desertion of the last-named field, moreover, is progressive and shows no indication of being stayed by any of the remedial measures that have been seriously discussed.  It is plain from these statistics that a large part of the increase in the number of women workers has been absorbed by manufacturing, a phenomenon of the age which has created wide demand for labor, such as machine-tending, involving little or no responsibility, entailing no worries outside of work hours and, while making demands upon physical strength, offering definite hours, at the conclusion of which the worker is free to direct her life as she sees fit to do. The number of women so engaged has not, however, increased materially in a decade. The number of stenographers more than doubled, while cashiers, bookkeepers and accountants grew from 187,155 in 1910 to 359,124 in 1920. Stenography, indeed, is shown as a profession of which women very nearly have a monopoly, now outnumbering the men by more than ten to one. The census bureau does not pretend to account for this; its function is merely to set down the fact. The observer of social change, now rapidly occurring especially in the field of women's labor, will find the material for serious study in this matter-of-fact but by no means un romantic report. Women Replace Men.  Seattle, Wash. — Encroachment of women in jobs formerly occupied by men is shown in a report just issued by the Seattle chamber of commerce. In 1920, in the State of Washington, there were 581 women barbers, hair­dressers and manicurists; 48 women fishermen and oystermen; seven wom­en dairymen, teamsters and expressmen; five women longshoremen; 24 women laborers in shipyards; 261 build­ing laborers. 233 sawmill and planing mill laborers and 53 lumbermen, raftsmen and woodchoppers. Relief Work Started.  "We started the work of relief immediately. The American firms Contributed the use of their automobiles and trucks. They never saw them again, because they were completely burned up. Representative Americans, members of the Y. M. C. A., and professors of the American college, organized a central committee. Within an hour, while the automobiles were still in their possession with the Star and Stripes flying on their machines, they were all over the city administering relief. Their first effort was amongst Americans. The conduct was generous  and heroic, even under the greatest difficulties. We urged American women teachers in the girl's school of the Y. W. C. A. to leave Smyrna but they refused until driven by the flames. "These brave women labored unceasingly without food and  sleep. Some are still there."  WOMEN'S PLACE  IN SOCIAL WORK SPEAKER’S TOPIC Mrs. Trumbull Talks to Class in Ethics; Knowledge of Conditions Needed CO-ED COOPERATION ASKED Methods Used in Conservation of Laborer’s Physical Powers Discussed College women have a large place in the program of improvement of the conditions of working women, according to Mrs. Millie R. Trumbull, secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission and Child Labor board, who addressed the class in Villard hall yesterday afternoon. The first requisite, according to Mrs. Trumbull, is that the college women must understand the conditions under which the working women labor Knowing this, they can then take steps toward real social service, in encouraging the workers in the factories to better their conditions. In her talk to the class in ethics, Mrs. Trumbull emphasized the great importance of keeping the body in fit condition to do the work for which pay is received. “We must have a strong, healthy body,” said Mrs. Trumbull. "The uncertain worker is a liability to the employer. What we want to sell to our employer is our bodily strength, so when a girl goes out to take a position, one of the first things she must do is to equip her body so that it can be depended upon.” Present Conditions Discussed Discussing working conditions in factories and other places where women gather to work every day, Mrs. Trumbull pointed out some of the efforts that are being made to make working conditions more favorable to conservation of the workers’ strength and health. All of the modern factories, she said, are being built so that they occupy one story wherever possible to obtain enough ground to build in this way. Concrete floors are covered with linoleum or boards where the workers must stand. This is one of the requirements of the Oregon labor laws. When asked how, in her opinion, the working conditions for women in Oregon compare with those of other states, Mrs. Trumbull replied that she believes that, as a general thing, they are good. Consideration must be made, however, for the nature of the industry in question, she said. The Oregon employers have not been as reactionary as in other states, especially in the east and midwest, with the result that the wages have not been cut as severely here as in other sections of the United States. Last summer, for the first time, the Consumers’ league sent a working woman to Bryn Mawr, to spend the summer on the campus and study any subjects she desired. This undertaking cost the league about $1,000 and the results were quite satisfactory. Mrs. Trumbull believes that a movement should be started to send the delegate from Oregon to the University of Oregon, rather than to the eastern school, as the University offers quite as great advantages, and the added expense saved may be used perhaps in sending more than one delegate. This matter will have Mrs. Trumbull’s careful attention, and it is possible that before long some action will be taken in this direction. Interested In Child Labor Mrs. Trumbull is keenly interested in the question of laboring conditions of women and minors. She has been connected with this work in Oregon ever since the passage of the original child labor law in 1903. The commission appointed, by ex-Governor Chamberlain consisted of women, who served without pay. Incidentally, it may be said, that women were appointed for this post because they would serve without pay. Since the Child Labor board and the Industrial Welfare commission were joined together in 1917, Mrs. Trumbull has retained the office of secretary of both departments. As secretary of the Industrial Welfare commission, Mrs. Trumbull’s duty is to inspect factories and industrial plants for working conditions and payrolls for the enforcement of the minimum wage law. She has been in Eugene this week inspecting the various places where women are employed. LIFE INSURANCE LIFE insurance is one of the greatest blessings of mankind. That it has gained the approval and support of nearly all men of wisdom and prominence Ii the country is a just cause for rejoicing. No one must be very old to recall the days when a large number of people believed life insurance something which required one to die to win. Today, it is looked upon as offering an exceptional oppor­tunity for saving, as well as protecting dear ones while men and women labor to provide the necessaries of life. Delicate Gown Made for Empress Eugenie It is said that the most perishable thing ever made was the gown of Em­press Eugenie designed for her to wear at a ball given at the Tuileries upon her return from the opening of the Suez canal. The ultimate in dress was made under the personal direction of the empress. Four women labored steadily for six months embroidering the flounces. It took two months to manufacture the gauze. The cloth was woven on machinery especially constructed and was the only kind of this material ever fashioned. The threads were so fine that the weavers were obliged to wear powerful magnifying glasses. SOCIETY Urgent among the matters in the field are: Child labor, world court, uniform marriage and divorce laws, department of education, women's labor bill and vocational training.
Women Should Enter Athletics The statement that women and girls should not enter into athlete sports is a mistake. One of the main arguments against women entering athletics is that women do not need the exercise as much as the men. A close study of the problem would indicate that they do not need the exercise as much if not more than men. Why? Let us first observe the conditions under which women labor. A woman's work keeps her indoors, while man's work does not. Good, wholesome sports takes ones mind from dull routine and brings one outside of the home. Therefore, women should have this kind of exercise.CANNERY TO BE IN FULL OPERATION UNTIL 1ST OF YEAR That the Umpqua Valley Cannery will be in operation until about the first of the year, is the statement made by the manager, Mr. A. J. Geddes. The plant is now packing pears, blackberries, and prunes, and will soon start its long run on apples. The cannery this year is putting up the largest pack in its history, and so far has met with a good market demand, although the prices have not been as good as had been hoped. The greatest difficulty this year has been in the securing of enough women laborers to take care of the fruit. The large volume of pears made it necessary for the cannery to issue an urgent call for workers, and although enough hands were secured to keep the fruit from becoming a loss, there is still a shortage in the number of women employees necessary to keep the plant operating at full capacity as desired. The prune season will bring about the need for still more workers and Mr. Geddes says that many more women can be given employment. The Umpqua Valley cannery has become firmly established as a local industry, and its future growth will be an important factor in the fruit situation in this county.DEMOCRATIC PARTY MAKING READY FOR THE NEXT CAMPAIGN OLD PLATFORM RECALLED Discriminatory Difference Between White and Colored Women Laborers Is Said To Be Nearly 100%. (By The Columbian Press) Washington D.C. May 6, "We pledge the Democratic Party to cooperate with the State governments for the welfare, education, and protection of child life and all necessary safeguards against exhaustive debilitating employment conditions for women." The above paragraph is quoted from the Democratic national platform of 1924, adopted at New York, and now in the slow but sure process of resurrection for next year, when the political progeny of Wilson and Bryan again assemble to map out a new plan of government for the U.S.A. The facts, however belie the fiction (Continued From Page One) of the platform of the Democratic party. In a survey recently made of 151 South Carolina industrial plants, typical of the Democratic area, in which there were employed 10,328 white women, 843 Negro women, and 590 girls under 16 years of age - a total of 11,761 employees of the class which the Convention platform specially pledged itself to SAFEGUARD AND PROTECT, it was found that the 60-hour week and the 10-hour day were sapping away the vitality of the Democratic mothers and daughters; and that the median earnings in all types of manufacturing occupations, of white women were from $9.50 to $9.60 per 60-hour week, while the median earnings for Negro women ranged from $4.90 to $6.00 per 60-hour week, - a discriminatory difference, for the same type of labor, of from $3.60 to $4.60 per week, by median, or nearly ONE HUNDRED PERCENT. In general mercantile manufacture white women received $15.50 per week, while colored women received $6.20; in goods manufacture, whites receive $7.60, Negroes, $4.85; yarn and cotton goods brought wages to whites of $12.00 per week; while Negroes received $6.70. Of all the women whose week's earnings were recorded, 71.2 percent of the white women earned less than $12.00, while 98.4 percent of the Negro women fell below the same weekly wage. And for the same two racial groups, 86.9 percent of the white women earned less than $15.00, while 99.8 percent of the Negro women were below the "coveted" $15.00 per week. The survey report concluded with the dismaying information that "the results of extensive underpayment of large groups of women, with the lowering of the standard of living below the level not only of comfort but of health itself and the elimination of all chance of saving or providing for the future, cannot be too strongly emphasized." Thus, with the Democratic party, pledges go on forever; so do poverty, unwholesome working conditions and low wages. And these evils are what unscrupulous and ignorant voters stimulate whenever they vote into public office the political tools of southern "captains" of industry. NEW  Speed-Invention  For Ironing, that's Portable That Heats in 4 Minutes - that's as Fast as an Ordinary Electric Iron WOMEN here is a sensational new invention for ironing. Small, compact easy to carry around - slips into a kitchen drawer or closet when not in use. Yet it does all that the big costly machines will do. It operates from the wringer shaft of your Thor Washing Machine faster than anything you've seen before. It  irons the loads of flat work, that make up some 90% of the family ironing, in less than one-third the time required by hand. Don't iron by hand another day. At this amazing low price you can't afford to be without the greatest of all women's labor savers in the home. One Who Knows Tells of a  Day in a Silverton Hopyard By this time the yard had begun to wake up. Already the wire-man had let down several wires. Other workers had come and several had begun to pick. The men were in khaki trousers and over-alls; the majority of the women were dressed likewise. But there are certain characteristics that mark a woman hop picker from all other women laborers. There are the stockings, with the feet cut off, that cover the arms and wrists; the canvas gloves with their leather patches to protect the hands; the large handkerchief to prevent the throat from becoming scratched. large, light straw hat, made to fit the head by means of a shoestring drawn through at the base of the crown, covers the head. A safety pin, worn in the manner of a fraternity pin, to hold the hop checks, completes the costume. Over the front of the men's and women's clothing are. dirty brows stains.CHAPTER NAT'L. LADIES' LEAGUE IS ORGANIZED Open-mindedly, and non-partisanly, the league has studied problems of national and international importance and from time to time conducts classes in citizenship. Women voters from both republican and democratic parties are enthusiastic workers in the organization, but the League itself is strictly non-partisan. It sponsors measures, not candidates. It is unique in its no-partisanship and is intensely patriotic, upholding the Constitution and working for the welfare of the country, for the removal of legal discriminations against women by specific measures not prejudicial to women's labor laws or to social welfare legislation. LABOR PROBLEM IS NOT HELD SERIOUS Two-Thirds men Wanting Work Transients; few Local men Suffer Unemployment situation for Salem does not look so bad now as it did a week ago, according to Sim Phillips, director of the U.S. employment service office here. Phillips says there are still plenty of unemployed men, but as far as he is able to check, fully two-thirds of them are transients. Not as many local men are out of work as have been, he believes. Phillips received an emergency call yesterday for Sunday laborers for cutting and pealing piling. The past week, 120 men registered for jobs and 46 were placed, while six of the 17 women seeking work through the bureau got jobs.  Analysis of the registrations and placements shows 22 of the 65 common laborers registered went to work; one of the four carpenters got work; 14 of the 20 agricultural laborers and four of the 11 farm hands secured jobs, as did three of the eight woods laborers and two of the four watchmen. The six women who were placed included: two agricultural laborers, one laundry helper; one kitchen worker; and two hotel housekeepers. WOMAN EXHORTS MILL STRIKERS Ann Burlak, woman labor leader, is shown addressing Central Falls, R. I., textile strikers. She was arrested for her activities and later freed on bond and is shown here after returning to take command of the strike activities. Labor disorders have resulted in frequent clashed between strikers and police. WOMEN TAKE JOBS FROM MEN SAYS WORKER Cincinnati, Ohio, Not. 24 (AP) At least one woman blames women for a part of the unemployment among American men. She is Miss Mary Anderson, former immigrant and factory worker, who was here today to address the American federation of labor convention.  Miss Anderson, director of the women's bureau of the department of labor says many American fathers with children to support are jobless because women will take work paying only $4 and $5 a week, but "what," she asked, "can be done about it?" "Women don't want to take low wages," she said. "But, they have to take whatever they can get. "Women have dependents just as men have. Women have decrepit parents and helpless little brothers and sisters, too." She used figures to illustrate how women workers have increased, often to the accompaniment of wholesale discharging of men. "There were two and one-half million more women employed in 1930 than in 1920. They got one-third to one-half less pay than men were getting for the same work. "Hence, many employers, finding they could hire women for less than they were paying men, fired the men and took on more women workers. "It used to be the competition of immigrants that hurt American labor now it's the competition of women; and from women it is extending to negro men and negro women." The only way American women can raise their working standards is through organization, Miss Anderson believes, but she does not countenance the idea of a separate labor union for women. CHERRY CO-OP WORKS 2 SHIFTS ON ROYAL ANNES Two shifts for sorting Royal Anne cherries were put on yesterday at the old Southern Pacific warehouse by the Willamette Cherry Growers association putting on a monster cherry barreling deal there under supervision of Robert Shinn, manager. Each shift is working 8 hours a day. Shinn states the latter part of the month he expects to have crews on pitting the share of the pack contracted for delivery pitted. However, a considerable share of the tonnage will be shipped un-pitted. Low wages paid in the east for women's labor makes taking on a pitting job on a large scale out here a rather precarious undertaking this year with enforcement of the minimum wage scale of 27.5 cents an hour, against labor which can be secured there are $3 and $4 a week for the same work.JAPANESE GOODS BOYCOTT BEGINS Boycott on Japanese goods which was ordered recently by the Women's Labor Congress in Seattle, will go into effect in immediately following I meeting of the Women's Auxiliary of Wood Workers set for Thursday evening, according to local officials. Pearl Wright and Mrs. Naomi Michaels of this city returned Monday evening from Seattle where they attended the congress. "It is not the intention of the organisation to put people out of work in factories which manufacture silk hose." said Miss Wright Wednesday afternoon. "The factories will probably manufacture cotton, lisle end rayon hose instead of silk. Women in many other places are already wearing wool, lisle or cotton hose."  Women Oppose Equal Rights Bill Much opposition has developed against the equal rights amendment pending in congress and scheduled to be reported out by the senate judiciary committee early this week. The objections come principally from representatives of garment workers and other women's labor organizations, from the Catholic National Welfare council, the Massachusetts Women's Constitutional league, the National Women's Suffrage association and the National League of Women voters. Pauline Newman of New York representing women in textile mills denounced the proponents "with being numerically insignificant, industrially ignorant, politically highly theoretical and socially quite muddled." The measure is opposed because it might invalidate protective legislation covering women workers, such as minimum wage and maximum hour laws. Legal chaos would result in various fields in the event of the adoption of the blanket amendment providing that "women shall have equal rights with men in the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction." Another objection is that it would extend the powers of congress to legislate on matters heretofore under the jurisdiction of the states, thereby removing the protective laws for women. It is also contended that the proper way to give women equal right with men as regards control over children, property and residence is through state legislation specifically removing unjust discrimination. Shanghai Oct. 16 -(AP) Authorities estimated 450 Chinese men and women laborers drowned today when the overloaded 180-ton river vessel Hsin Taiku Maru capsized in the storm-swept Yangtze estuary 12 miles from Woosung.
450 Drowned As Chinese Vessel Sinks In Yangtze SHANGHAI, Oct. 16 (AP) Authorities estimated 450 Chinese men and women laborers drowned today when the overloaded 180-ton river vessel Hsin Taiku Maru capsized in the storm-swept Yangtze estuary 12 miles from Woosung. The only foreigners aboard, a Japanese captain, was believed lost with his ship.  Several vessels in the vicinity reported rough water made rescue attempt almost impossible. The passengers on the boat were employed in Japanese-dominated areas along both banks of the Yangtze. The German Women's Labor Service, compulsory for all unmarried girls between the ages of 18 and 23, now has 110,000 girls in uniform. They are housed in 2,000 labor camps scattered throughout Germany.
Shipbuilding Only a Part. Shipbuilding is only a part of the Clyde and the Glasgow war activities. Here are great munition plants, in which literally armies of uniformed women labor; airplane and airship factories, tank 
